-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KFbqbF/9Q9ftAljjBCDLCdpGAEwE3UN3bZuTNqs1dTz3qqaltD0N7F1emDrTNecI
 hJcyit51HXzPgZ0TYtAIog==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-98-000005.txt : 19980323
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-98-000005.hdr.sgml : 19980323
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-98-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980319
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		98568635

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		520 N OCONNOR BLVD
		STREET 2:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-3746
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		303 W WALL
		STREET 2:		SUITE 101
		CITY:			MIDLAND
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			79701
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549


                                    Form 10-K


              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997


                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                         75-2702753
(State or other jurisdiction of                         (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

1400 Williams Square West, 5205 N.  O'Connor Blvd., Irving, Texas      75039
(Address of principal executive offices)                             (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange
 Title of each class                                   on which registered

 Common Stock..................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    YES    X      NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
  non-affiliates of the Registrant as of February 27, 1998....... $2,377,781,760

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
  February 27, 1998..............................................    100,899,720

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)   Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 21, 1998
      - Referenced in Part III of this report.


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                              CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
              Pursuant to National Policy Statement No. 47 (Canada)
                        (Annual Information Form ("AIF"))


Item Number and Caption of AIF        Heading or Location in Form 10-K
- ------------------------------        --------------------------------
1.  Incorporation                     Item 1.   Business

2.  General Development of the        Item 1.   Business
    Business

3.  Narrative Description of the      Item 1.   Business
    Business                          Item 2.   Properties

4.  Selected Consolidated Financial   Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
    Information                       Item 8.   Financial Statements and
                                                Supplementary Data

5.  Management's Discussion and       Item 7.   Management's Discussion and
    Analysis                                    Analysis of Financial Conditions
                                                and Results of Operations

6.  Market for Securities             Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common
                                                Stock and Related Stockholder
                                                Matters

7.  Directors and Officers            Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
                                                of the Registrant

8.  Additional Information            Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
                                                of the Registrant
                                      Item 11.  Executive Compensation
                                      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain
                                                Beneficial Owners and Management
                                      Item 13.  Certain Relationships and
                                                Related Transactions


                                        2

<PAGE>



     Parts I and II of this  Report  contain  forward  looking  statements  that
involve risks and  uncertainties.  Accordingly,  no assurances can be given that
the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be  materially  different  than the
anticipated  results described in the forward looking  statements.  See "Item 1.
Business - Competition,  Markets and  Regulation"  and "Item 1. Business - Risks
Associated  with Business  Activities" for a description of various factors that
could  materially  affect the ability of the Company to achieve the  anticipated
results described in the forward looking statements.

                                     PART I

     Unless  otherwise  specified,  all dollar  amounts are  expressed in United
States dollars.  Certain oil and gas terms used in this Report are defined under
"Item 1. Business - Definition of Certain Oil and Gas Terms".

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

      Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") was formed in April 1997
as a Delaware  corporation  and,  prior to August 7, 1997, had not conducted any
significant  activities.  Effective  as of  August  7,  1997,  Parker &  Parsley
Petroleum  Company ("Parker & Parsley"),  formerly a Delaware  corporation,  and
MESA Inc.  ("Mesa"),  formerly a Texas  corporation,  completed  their  business
combination  pursuant to an Amended and  Restated  Agreement  and Plan of Merger
dated as of April 6, 1997 (the "Merger Agreement"), among Parker & Parsley, Mesa
and its  wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  the  Company  and Mesa  Operating  Company
("MOC"). The Company was significantly expanded by the subsequent acquisition of
the  Canadian  and  Argentine  oil and gas  business of Chauvco  Resources  Ltd.
("Chauvco"), a publicly traded independent oil and gas company based in Calgary,
Canada on December 18, 1997.

      In accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles  Board No. 16,
"Business  Combinations",  both the  merger  with  Mesa and the  acquisition  of
Chauvco have been accounted for as purchases by the Company  (formerly  Parker &
Parsley). As a result, the historical  financial,  reserve and other statistical
information  for the  Company are those of Parker & Parsley,  and the  Company's
financial,  reserve and other  statistical  information  present the addition of
Mesa's  and  Chauvco's  assets and  liabilities  as an  acquisition  by Parker &
Parsley in August and December 1997, respectively.

      The Company's  proved  reserves at December 31, 1997 totaled 761.6 million
BOE,  representing $3.1 billion in SEC 10 Value. Of the total, domestic reserves
represent 81% of the BOEs and 82% of the SEC 10 Value.

      The  Company's  business  activities  are conducted  through  wholly-owned
subsidiaries and are comprised of the business  activities formerly conducted by
Parker & Parsley, Mesa and Chauvco.  Domestic drilling and production operations
are principally located in Texas, Kansas,  Oklahoma,  Louisiana,  New Mexico and
offshore  Gulf  of  Mexico.  The  Company  also  owns  interests  in oil and gas
properties in Argentina and Canada.

      The Company's  executive offices are located at 1400 Williams Square West,
5205 N. O'Connor Blvd.,  Irving,  Texas 75039, and its telephone number at those
offices is (972) 444-9001. The Company maintains division offices in Midland and
Houston,  Texas, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma,  Buenos Aires,  Argentina and Calgary,
Canada. At December 31, 1997, the Company had 1,321 employees, 399 of which were
employed in field and plant operations.

Mission and Strategies

      The  Company's  mission  is to  provide  its  shareholders  with  superior
long-term  profitability  and value. The "opportunity  driven"  strategies to be
employed to achieve this mission will include:  (a)  developing  and  increasing
production from existing  properties through low-risk  development  drilling and
other  activities,  (b)  concentrating  on defined  geographic  areas to achieve
operating and technical efficiencies, (c) pursuing strategic acquisitions in the
Company's core areas that will complement the Company's  existing asset base and
that will provide  additional growth  opportunities,  (d) utilizing or acquiring
technological  and  operating   efficiencies  to  selectively  expand  into  new
geographic    areas   that   feature    producing    properties    and   provide
exploration/exploitation   opportunities,   (e)  allocating  the  personnel  and
technology necessary to increase the Company's  exploration  opportunities,  (f)
maintaining financial  flexibility to take advantage of additional  exploration,
development and  acquisition  opportunities and  (g) encouraging  high levels of

                                        3

<PAGE>



equity  ownership  among senior managers and the Company's Board of Directors to
further  align the  interests of  management  and  shareholders.  The Company is
committed to continuing to enhance  shareholder value through adherence to these
strategies.

Business Activities

Production

      The Company  focuses  its  efforts  toward  increasing  its average  daily
production of oil and gas through development drilling,  production  enhancement
activities and acquisitions of producing  properties.  Average daily oil and gas
production  have each increased every year since 1991 with the exception of 1996
when average daily production declined due to significant property dispositions.
In spite of production  decreases due to property sales,  the Company's  efforts
towards  production  growth have been largely  successful as  illustrated by the
five-year average daily production growth rates. Comparing 1992 to 1997, average
daily oil  production  has increased  279% and average daily gas  production has
increased 327%, while  production  costs per BOE have declined 30%.  Production,
price and cost information with respect to the Company's  properties for each of
1997, 1996 and 1995 is set forth under  "Item 2. Properties  - Selected  Oil and
Gas Information - Production, Price and Cost Data".

Drilling Activities

      The Company  seeks to increase its oil and gas  reserves,  production  and
cash  flow by  concentrating  on  drilling  low-risk  development  wells  and by
conducting  additional  development  activities such as recompletions.  From the
beginning  of 1993  through  the end of 1997,  the Company  drilled  2,351 gross
(1,585 net) wells, 94% of which were successfully completed as productive wells,
at a total cost (net to the Company's  interest) of $938  million.  During 1997,
the  Company  drilled  592 gross  (405 net)  wells for a total  cost (net to the
Company's  interest) of  approximately  $343 million,  72% of which was spent on
development  wells and related  facilities.  The Company's  current 1998 capital
expenditure  budget is $500 million  which the Company has allocated as follows:
$301 million to exploitation activities,  $125 million to exploration activities
and $74 million to oil and gas property  acquisitions.  This capital expenditure
budget reflects the Company's plans to drill approximately 600 development wells
and 95 exploratory wells and to perform recompletions on over 200 wells.

      The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for continued  reserve,  production and cash flow growth.
The  Company's  domestic  reserves  as  of  December  31,  1997  include  proved
undeveloped and proved developed  nonproducing  reserves of 71.9 million Bbls of
oil and NGLs and 395.6 Bcf of gas.  Development of these reserves is anticipated
to occur  principally  in 1998 and 1999.  The Company  believes that its current
portfolio  of  undeveloped   prospects  provides   attractive   development  and
exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years.

Exploratory Activities

      Since 1995,  the Company has  dedicated an  increasing  percentage  of its
annual  exploration/exploitation  capital budget to exploratory projects, 17% in
1995,  18% in 1996 and 28% in 1997.  The  Company  will  continue  to allocate a
significant portion of its capital budget to its exploration  opportunities with
a focus on generating a portfolio of short to medium term impact  projects.  The
Company   currently   anticipates   that   approximately   29%   of   its   1998
exploration/exploitation  capital budget will be spent on exploratory  projects.
The majority of the 1998 exploratory budget is allocated to domestic  activities
in the Gulf Coast region and  internationally  in Africa,  Argentina and Canada.
Exploratory  drilling  involves  greater  risks of dry holes or  failure to find
commercial  quantities of  hydrocarbons  than  development  drilling or enhanced
recovery  activities.  See "Item 1.  Business - Risks  Associated  with Business
Activities - Risks of Drilling Activities" below.

Asset Divestitures

      The  Company  regularly  reviews  its  property  base for the  purpose  of
identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital
resources   available  for  other  activities  and  create   organizational  and
operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets

                                        4

<PAGE>



solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such  dispositions  can have the result
of furthering the Company's objective of financial flexibility through decreased
debt levels.

      For the year ended  December 31, 1997,  the  Company's  asset  disposition
activity primarily  consisted of the sale of certain domestic assets,  primarily
oil and gas properties,  for proceeds of $114.1 million, which resulted in a net
gain of $4.3 million and the sale of the Company's  subsidiary with an ownership
interest in oil and gas properties in Turkey for proceeds of $1.6 million, which
resulted in the  recognition of a gain of $706  thousand.  During the year ended
December  31,  1996,  the Company sold  certain  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  for
proceeds of $183.2  million  resulting  in a pre-tax  gain of $83.3  million and
certain nonstrategic domestic assets for proceeds of $58.4 million that resulted
in the  recognition  of a pre-tax net gain of $13.8  million.  During 1995,  the
Company divested certain assets, primarily oil and gas properties,  for proceeds
of $175.1  million  that  resulted in a pre-tax net gain of $16.6  million.  The
proceeds  from  the  asset  dispositions  were  used  to  reduce  the  Company's
outstanding  bank  indebtedness  and to  provide  funding  for a portion  of the
Company's capital expenditures, including purchases of oil and gas properties in
the Company's core areas.

      In February  1998,  the Company  announced its intentions to sell domestic
nonstrategic  properties for proceeds  ranging from $375 to $550 million.  These
properties  represent  approximately  15% of the Company's  total cash flow from
operations. The Company plans to complete this divestiture in the latter part of
1998.  The proceeds will be initially  used to reduce the Company's  outstanding
indebtedness  and  subsequently  to provide  funding for the  Company's  capital
expenditures program. This will leave the Company with approximately 25 domestic
fields,  which represent the Company's core producing assets with  complementary
development  opportunities  and the  Company's  assets with  significant  future
exploration opportunities.

      The  consummation of the Company's 1998  divestiture  plans and any future
divestiture  plans is entirely  dependent on finding one or more willing  buyers
who have the financial  wherewithal  to complete  such a purchase.  Until such a
buyer is found,  the Company may  reevaluate  its portfolio of properties and at
any time may adjust its plans concerning divestitures. As a result, there can be
no assurance  that the  divestiture  of any or all of these  properties  will be
completed or that the estimated proceeds will be realized.

Acquisition Activities

      General. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement
its  operations  and provide  exploitation  and  development  opportunities  and
cost-reduction   potential.   In  addition,   the  Company   pursues   strategic
acquisitions  that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical  areas
that  feature   producing   properties   and  provide   exploration/exploitation
opportunities.  During 1997, the Company completed three major transactions: the
merger with Mesa for total  consideration of $991.0 million,  the acquisition of
Chauvco for total  consideration of $696.4 million and the acquisition of assets
from America Cometra for total consideration of $130 million. These acquisitions
added  significantly  to the  Company's  exploratory  and  development  drilling
opportunities,  balanced the Company's  reserve mix between oil and natural gas,
increased the scale of its operations in the MidContinent  region,  the offshore
Gulf Coast  region,  Argentina  and  Canada  and  provided  the  Company  with a
significant  base of  operations  and  experienced  personnel  for its  areas of
geographic  focus,  including  international  areas.  During 1996 and 1995,  the
Company  reduced its  previous  emphasis  on major  acquisitions  and,  instead,
concentrated  its efforts on maximizing the value from its existing  properties.
However, the Company continued its program of smaller acquisitions of properties
that exhibit one or more of the following  characteristics:  properties that are
near or otherwise complement the Company's existing properties,  properties that
represent  additional  working  interests  in  Company-operated   properties  or
properties  that provide the Company with strategic  exploitation or exploration
opportunities.  In  1996  and  1995,  aggregate  expenditures  to  acquire  such
interests  and  properties  amounted  to  approximately  $21  million  and $48.5
million, respectively.

      Future  Acquisition  Opportunities.  The  Company  regularly  pursues  and
evaluates  acquisition   opportunities   (including   opportunities  to  acquire
particular oil and gas  properties or related assets or entities  owning oil and
gas  properties  or  related  assets  and  opportunities  to engage in  mergers,
consolidations  or other  business  combinations  with such entities) and at any
given time may be in  various  stages of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such
stages may take the form of  internal  financial  analysis,  oil and gas reserve
analysis,   due  diligence,   the  submission  of  an  indication  of  interest,
preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a
definitive agreement.

                                        5

<PAGE>



Financial Management

      The Company strives to maintain its outstanding indebtedness at a moderate
level  in  order  to  provide  sufficient   financial   flexibility  for  future
exploration,  development and acquisition  opportunities.  While the Company may
occasionally  incur higher  levels of debt to take  advantage of  opportunities,
management's  objective  is to  maintain a  flexible  capital  structure  and to
strengthen the Company's financial position by reducing debt through an increase
in equity capital or through the divestiture of nonstrategic assets.

      As with any organization,  the Company has experienced various debt levels
in recent years as it has responded to strategic opportunities.  During 1996 and
1995,  the Company took  deliberate  actions to reduce its debt levels or extend
its debt maturities in order to improve its financial  flexibility and enable it
to take  advantage of future  strategic  opportunities.  The Company was able to
reduce  its debt  level  significantly  each year  through  the  application  of
proceeds  from the  dispositions  of assets that the Company had  identified  as
nonstrategic (see "Asset Divestitures" above). In 1997, the Company's debt level
increased as a result of the  assumption  of the debt of Mesa and Chauvco.  Also
during 1997,  the Company  recorded a noncash  pre-tax charge of $1.4 billion in
accordance with SFAS 121 as defined in Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. "Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data".
As a result of the decrease in capital and the increase in debt,  the  Company's
debt as a percentage  of total  capitalization  was 56% at December 31, 1997, up
from 31% at December 31, 1996.

      In January  1998,  the  Company  completed  the  issuance of two series of
senior notes for total net proceeds of $593 million.  The first issuance was for
$350  million  of ten year  notes  with a coupon  rate of 6.5%,  and the  second
issuance  was for $250  million of thirty year notes with a coupon rate of 7.2%.
The proceeds were used  primarily to repay the Company's bank  indebtedness  and
had the effect of extending the Company's debt maturities.

Marketing of Production

      General.  Production from the Company's  properties is marketed consistent
with industry practices,  which include the sale of oil at the wellhead to third
parties and the sale of gas to third parties.  Sales prices for both oil and gas
production are negotiated based on factors  normally  considered in the industry
such as the spot price for gas or the posted price for oil,  price  regulations,
distance  from the well to the  pipeline,  well  pressure,  estimated  reserves,
commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.

      Significant Purchasers.  During 1997, the Company's two primary purchasers
of crude oil were Mobil Oil  Corporation  ("Mobil")  and Genesis Crude Oil, L.P.
("Genesis"),  both of which  purchase oil pursuant to contracts that provide for
prices that are based on prevailing market prices.  Approximately 16% and 23% of
the Company's 1997 oil and gas revenues were  attributable to sales to Mobil and
Genesis,  respectively.  During  1997,  the Company  marketed  its natural  gas,
including  natural gas products,  to a variety of purchasers.  Approximately 11%
and 10% of the Company's 1997 oil and gas revenues were attributable to sales to
Producers Energy Marketing,  LLC and Western Gas Resources,  Inc., respectively.
The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser  would not have
an adverse  effect on its ability to sell its oil and gas  production or natural
gas products.

      Hedging  Activities.   The  Company  periodically  enters  into  commodity
derivative  contracts  (swaps,  futures and  options) in order to (i) reduce the
effect  of the  volatility  of price  changes  on the  commodities  the  Company
produces and sells,  (ii) support the  Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and
expenditure  plans and (iii) lock in prices to protect the economics  related to
certain  capital  projects.  The hedging  strategy  for each product the Company
sells is described in further detail below.

      Crude Oil. All material  purchase  contracts  governing  the Company's oil
production  are tied directly or  indirectly  to NYMEX  prices.  The average oil
prices per Bbl that the Company  reports  includes  the effects of oil  quality,
gathering and transportation costs and the net effect of the oil hedges.

      Natural Gas Liquids.  The Company  employs a policy of hedging natural gas
liquids  based  on  actual  product  prices  in order  to  mitigate  some of the
volatility  associated  with NYMEX  pricing.  Natural gas liquids are sold under
long-term  contracts  which provide price  flexibility  and allow the Company to
maximize prices between trading hubs.

                                        6

<PAGE>



      Natural Gas. The Company employs a policy of hedging gas production  based
on the index price upon which the gas is actually  sold in order to mitigate the
basis risk between NYMEX prices and actual index prices.  The average gas prices
per Mcf that the Company reports includes the effects of Btu content,  gathering
and transportation costs, gas processing and shrinkage and the net effect of the
gas hedges.

      See Item 7. "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of  Operations"  for a description  of the Company's  results of its
hedging activities and Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
a description of the Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 1997 and the
related prices to be realized.

Operations by Geographic Area

      The Company  operates in one industry  segment.  During 1997 and 1996, the
Company did not have  significant  operations in geographic areas other than the
United  States.  For financial  information  with respect to the Company's  1995
operations by geographic  area,  see Note O of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

Competition, Markets and Regulation

      Competition.  The oil and gas  industry  is  highly  competitive.  A large
number  of  companies  and  individuals   engage  in  the  exploration  for  and
development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions
of oil and gas  properties  have  been an  important  element  of the  Company's
growth,  and the Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties.
The principal  competitive  factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties
include the staff and data necessary to identify,  investigate and purchase such
properties  and the financial  resources  necessary to acquire and develop them.
Many of the Company's  competitors are  substantially  larger and have financial
and other resources greater than those of the Company.

      Markets.  The  Company's  ability  to  produce  and  market  oil  and  gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. In recent years,
worldwide oil production  capacity and gas production  capacity in certain areas
of the United States have exceeded demand,  with resulting declines in the price
of oil and gas.  Although the Company  cannot  predict the  occurrence of events
that may  affect  oil and gas  prices or the  degree to which oil and gas prices
will be  affected,  it is  possible  that  prices for any oil or gas the Company
produces will be lower than those currently  available.  Any significant decline
in the  price of oil or gas  would  adversely  affect  the  Company's  revenues,
profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances,  result in a
reduction in the carrying value of the Company's oil and gas properties.

      During  most of 1996 and 1997,  the  Company  benefitted  from  higher oil
prices as compared  to previous  years.  However,  during the fourth  quarter of
1997,  oil prices began a downward  trend that has continued  into March 1998. A
continuation of the oil price environment  experienced  during the first quarter
of 1998 will have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating cash
flow,  and may result in a downward  adjustment  to the  Company's  current 1998
capital budget of $500 million.  Also, a continuing  decline in oil prices could
result in  additional  decreases in the carrying  value of the Company's oil and
gas properties.

      Governmental  Regulation.  Oil  and gas  exploration  and  production  are
subject to various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign
agencies.  The Company's  operations are also subject to state conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the  regulation  of  spacing,  plugging  and  abandonment  of wells.  Each state
generally  imposes a production or severance tax with respect to production  and
sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. The regulatory burden
on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's cost of doing business and,
consequently, affects its profitability.

      The Outer  Continental  Shelf Lands Act (the  "OCSLA")  requires  that all
pipelines operating on or across the Outer Continental Shelf (the "OCS") provide
open-access,  nondiscriminatory  service. Although the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  ("FERC") has chosen not to impose the  regulations of Order No. 509,
which implements the OCSLA, on gatherers and other  nonjurisdictional  entities,
FERC has retained  the authority to exercise jurisdiction over those entities if

                                        7

<PAGE>



necessary to permit nondiscriminatory access to service on the OCS. In addition,
gathering  lines are currently  exempt from FERC's  jurisdiction,  regardless of
whether they are on the OCS, but FERC could eliminate this exception. Commencing
May 1994, FERC issued a series of orders in individual  cases that delineate its
current  gathering  policy.  FERC's  gathering policy was retained and clarified
with regard to deep water offshore facilities in a statement of policy issued in
February  1996.  FERC's new gathering  policy does not address its  jurisdiction
over  pipelines  operating on or across the OCS  pursuant to the OCSLA.  If FERC
were to apply Order No. 509 to gatherers on the OCS,  eliminate the exemption of
gathering lines and redefine its jurisdiction  over gathering lines,  these acts
could result in a reduction in available pipeline space for existing shippers in
the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, such as the Company.

      The United States Minerals Management Service (the "MMS") is conducting an
inquiry into certain  contract  settlement  agreements  from which  producers on
federal oil and gas leases have received settlement proceeds that the MMS claims
are royalty-bearing and into the extent to which producers have paid appropriate
royalty on those proceeds.

      Additional  proposals  and  proceedings  that might affect the oil and gas
industry are considered from time to time by Congress,  FERC,  state  regulatory
bodies, the courts and foreign  governments.  The Company cannot predict when or
if any such  proposals  might become  effective or their effect,  if any, on the
Company's operations.

      Environmental and Health Controls. The Company's operations are subject to
numerous  federal,  state,  local and foreign laws and  regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict air or other  discharges  resulting  from the  operation of natural gas
processing plants,  pipeline systems and other facilities that the Company owns.
Although  the Company  believes  that  compliance  with  environmental  laws and
regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on operations or earnings,
risks  of  substantial  costs  and  liabilities  are  inherent  in oil  and  gas
operations,   and  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  significant   costs  and
liabilities,  including  potential  criminal  penalties,  will not be  incurred.
Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental
laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from
the Company's operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities.

      The Comprehensive Environmental Response,  Compensation, and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

      The Company generates wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject
to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable
state  statutes.  The U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency and various  state
agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and
nonhazardous wastes. Furthermore,  certain wastes generated by the Company's oil
and  natural  gas  operations  that  are  currently  exempt  from  treatment  as
"hazardous  wastes" may in the future be designated  as "hazardous  wastes," and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

      The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased,
properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production
of oil and gas.  Although the Company has used operating and disposal  practices
that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may
have been disposed of or released on or under the properties  owned or leased by
the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for
disposal.  In addition,  some of these  properties  have been  operated by third
parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes
was not  under the Company's  control.  These  properties and the wastes diposed

                                        8

<PAGE>



thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and  analogous  state  laws.  Under such
laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate  previously  disposed
wastes or property  contamination or to perform remedial plugging  operations to
prevent future contamination.

      Federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention  control plans,  countermeasure  plans,  and facility  response
plans  relating to the possible  discharge of oil into surface  waters.  The Oil
Pollution  Prevention  Act of 1990  ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions  of the
federal Water Pollution  Control Act of 1972,  commonly referred to as the Clean
Water Act ("CWA") and other  statutes as they pertain to the  prevention  of and
response  to oil  spills  into  navigable  waters.  The OPA  subjects  owners of
facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup
costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited
to,  the costs of  responding  to a release of oil to  surface  waters.  The CWA
provides  penalties  for any  discharges  of  petroleum  products in  reportable
quantities and imposes substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.
State laws for the control of water  pollution  also provide  varying  civil and
criminal  penalties and  liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its
derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.

      OPA requires  responsible  parties to establish  and maintain  evidence of
financial  responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an
oil spill. OPA calls for a financial responsibility increase from $35 million to
$150 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. In August 1993,
MMS, which has been charged with  implementing  certain  segments of OPA, issued
its  advanced  notice of  proposed  rulemaking  that  would  increase  financial
responsibility  requirements for offshore lessees and permittees to $150 million
as required by OPA. Due to the OPA's broad  definition  of "offshore  facility,"
the Company could become subject to the financial  responsibility  rule if it is
proposed and adopted;  to date,  however,  the MMS has not formally proposed the
financial  responsibility  regulations.  On May  9,  1995,  the  U.S.  House  of
Representatives  passed a bill that  would  lower the  financial  responsibility
requirements  applicable  to offshore  facilities  to $35 million  (the  current
requirement under the federal OCSLA).  The bill allows the limit to be increased
to $150  million  if a formal  risk  assessment  indicates  the  increase  to be
warranted.  It would also define "offshore facility" to include only coastal oil
and gas  properties.  A U.S.  Senate  bill that would  also lower the  financial
responsibility requirements for offshore facilities was passed in late 1995. The
Senate  bill would  reduce the scope of  "offshore  facilities"  subject to this
financial  assurance  requirement  to  those  facilities  seaward  of  the  U.S.
coastline that are engaged in drilling for,  producing or processing oil or that
have the  capacity  to  transport,  store,  transfer,  or handle more than 1,000
barrels  of oil at a time.  Currently,  the  House  and  Senate  bills are being
reconciled in Conference  Committee.  The Clinton  Administration  has indicated
support for these changes to the OPA financial responsibility requirements.  The
Company  cannot   predict  the  final  form  of  the  financial   responsibility
requirements that will be ultimately established, but any role that requires the
Company to establish evidence of financial  responsibility in the amount of $150
million  has  the  potential  to  have a  material  adverse  effect  on  Company
operations  and  earnings.  The  Company  does not  believe  that the rule to be
proposed by the MMS will be any more  burdensome  to it than it will be to other
similarly situated oil and gas companies.

      Many states in which the Company  operates have recently begun to regulate
naturally  occurring  radioactive  materials  ("NORM")  and NORM wastes that are
generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.
NORM wastes  typically  consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that
become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations
may require the testing of pipes and  production  equipment  for the presence of
NORM, the licensing of NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
disposal of NORM wastes.  The Company  believes  that the growing  regulation of
NORM will have a minimal effect on the Company's  operations because the Company
generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis.

      The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition.

      The Company employs an  environmental  specialist  charged with monitoring
regulatory  compliance.  The Company performs an environmental review as part of
the due diligence work on potential acquisitions,  including acquisitions of oil
and gas properties. The Company is not aware of any material environmental legal
proceedings pending against it or any significant  environmental  liabilities to
which it may be subject.

                                        9

<PAGE>



Risks Associated with Business Activities

      The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business activities.

      Oil and Gas Prices and  General  Market  Risks.  The  Company's  revenues,
profitability,  cash flow and future rate of growth are highly  dependent on the
prevailing  prices of oil and gas, which are affected by numerous factors beyond
the Company's control.  Oil and gas prices historically have been very volatile.
A  substantial  or  extended  decline  in the  prices of oil or gas could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's  revenues,  profitability and cash flow
and could,  under certain  circumstances,  result in a reduction in the carrying
value of the Company's oil and gas  properties  and a reduction in the Company's
borrowing base under its bank credit facility.

      Risks of Drilling Activities.  As noted under "Item 1. Business - Business
Activities,"  of the total 1998  capital  budget of $500  million,  the  Company
anticipates spending  approximately $301 million on exploitation  activities and
$125 million on exploration activities. This capital expenditure budget reflects
the  Company's  plans  to  drill  approximately  600  development  wells  and 95
exploratory  wells and to  perform  recompletions  on over 200  wells.  Drilling
involves  numerous  risks,  including the risk that no  commercially  productive
natural  gas or oil  reservoirs  will be  encountered.  The  cost  of  drilling,
completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be
curtailed,  delayed or canceled  as a result of a variety of factors,  including
unexpected  drilling  conditions,  pressure  or  irregularities  in  formations,
equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and shortages or
delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's  future drilling  activities
may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have an adverse
effect on the Company's  future results of operations  and financial  condition.
While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory,  involves these risks,
exploratory  drilling  involves  greater  risks of dry holes or  failure to find
commercial  quantities  of  hydrocarbons.  Because  of  the  percentage  of  the
Company's capital budget devoted to exploratory  projects, it is likely that the
Company will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense.

      Risks Associated with Unproved Properties.  At December 31, 1997 and 1996,
the  Company  had  unproved  property  costs  of $545  million  and $7  million,
respectively.  U.S.  GAAP  requires  periodic  evaluation  of  these  costs on a
project-by-project   basis  in  comparison  to  their  estimated  value.   These
evaluations will be affected by results of exploration activities,  future sales
or  expiration of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of proved
reserves  determined by such evaluations are not sufficient to fully recover the
cost  invested  in each  project,  the  Company  may be  required  to  recognize
significant non-cash charges in the earnings of future periods.  There can be no
assurance that economic reserves will be determined to exist for such projects.

      Acquisitions. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future  net  revenues  attributable  to  reserves  and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

      Divestitures.  The Company  regularly  reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  nonstrategic  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic  assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the  nonstrategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

      Risks  Associated  with  Operation of Natural Gas Processing  Plants.  The
Company owns interests in seven natural gas processing plants and operates three
of those plants,  although the net revenues  derived from natural gas processing
during  1997  represented  only 1% of the  total net  revenues  from oil and gas
activities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas  processing  plants.  Natural gas and natural gas liquids are  volatile  and
explosive and may include  carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation of a natural


                                       10

<PAGE>



gas  processing  plant could result in an  explosion  or the  discharge of toxic
gases,   which  could  result  in  significant  damage  claims  in  addition  to
interrupting a revenue source.

      Operating  Hazards and  Uninsured  Risks.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained by comparable  companies in the oil and gas industry,
it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of high premium costs.

      Environmental  Risks.  The  oil  and  gas  business  is  also  subject  to
environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges
of toxic  substances  or gases that  could  expose  the  Company to  substantial
liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety of federal,
state and foreign laws and regulations  govern the environmental  aspects of the
oil and gas business.  Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject
the Company to  penalties,  damages or other  liabilities,  and  compliance  may
increase the cost of the Company's  operations.  Such laws and  regulations  may
also  affect the costs of  acquisitions.  See "Item 1.  Business -  Competition,
Markets and Regulation - Environmental and Health Controls".

      The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise  adversely  affect the Company's  operations and financial  condition.
Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

      Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation".

      Government Regulation. The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation".

      Risks of International Operations. At December 31, 1997, approximately 20%
of the Company's  proved reserves of oil and gas were located outside the United
States (12% in Argentina  and 8% in Canada).  The success and  profitability  of
international  operations  may be adversely  affected by risks  associated  with
international  activities,  including  economic and labor conditions,  political
instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes
in the value of the United States dollar versus the local  currency in which oil
and gas are sold.  To the extent that the  Company is involved in  international
activities,  changes  in  exchange  rates may  adversely  affect  the  Company's
consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed in United States dollars).

      Estimates  of Reserves  and Future Net  Revenues.  Numerous  uncertainties
exist in  estimating  quantities  of proved  reserves  and future  net  revenues
therefrom.  The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set
forth in this  Report are based on  various  assumptions,  which may  ultimately
prove to be inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be construed as
estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

Definition of Certain Oil and Gas Terms

      When used in this Report,  the following terms have the meanings indicated
below.

      "Bbl" means a standard barrel of 42  U.S. gallons and represents the basic
unit for  measuring  the  production  of crude  oil,  natural  gas  liquids  and
condensate.

                                       11

<PAGE>



      "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet.

      "Bcfe" means a billion cubic feet equivalent and is a customary convention
used in the United States to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable  basis.
It is determined on the basis of the estimated relative energy content of oil to
natural gas, being approximately one barrel of oil per six Mcf of gas.

      "BOE" means a barrel-of-oil-equivalent  and is a customary convention used
in the United States to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable basis. It is
determined on the basis of the estimated  relative energy content of natural gas
to oil, being approximately six Mcf of natural gas per Bbl of oil.

      "Btu" means British  thermal unit and represents the amount of heat needed
to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit.

      "gross" acre or well means an acre or well in which a working  interest is
owned.

      "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls.

      "MBOE" means one thousand BOEs.

      "Mcf"  means one  thousand  cubic  feet  under  prescribed  conditions  of
pressure  and  temperature  and  represents  the basic  unit for  measuring  the
production of natural gas.

      "MMcf" means one million cubic feet.

      "net"  acres or wells is  determined  by  multiplying  the gross  acres or
wells,  as the case may be, by the  applicable  working  interest in those gross
acres or wells.

      "NGLs" means natural gas liquids.

      "NYMEX" means The New York Mercantile Exchange.

      "proved  reserves"  means  those  estimated  quantities  of crude  oil and
natural gas that geological and  engineering  data  demonstrate  with reasonable
certainty to be  recoverable  in future years from known oil and gas  reservoirs
under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved reserves are limited to
those  quantities  of oil  and  gas  that  can  be  expected  to be  recoverable
commercially at current prices and costs,  under existing  regulatory  practices
and with existing conventional equipment and operating methods.

      "SEC 10 value" means the present  value of estimated  future net revenues,
before income taxes, of proved reserves,  determined in all material respects in
accordance  with the rules and  regulations of the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  ("SEC") (generally using prices and costs in effect at the specified
date and a 10% discount  rate).  The reserve  estimates  for 1997 utilize an oil
price of $16.89 per Bbl  (reflecting  adjustments  for oil quality and gathering
and  transportation  costs),  an NGL price of $12.79  per Bbl and a gas price of
$2.06  per  Mcf  (reflecting   adjustments   for  BTU  content,   gathering  and
transportation costs and gas processing and shrinkage).

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

      The information included in this Report about the Company's proved oil and
gas reserves at December 31, 1997,  including  estimated  quantities  and SEC 10
value, is based on reserve reports  prepared by the Company's  engineers for all
properties  other than Canada,  which have been  prepared by Martin  Petroleum &
Associates and Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates.

      Numerous  uncertainties exist in estimating  quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report
contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC.  Actual future production, oil and gas prices,  revenues,

                                       12

<PAGE>



taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities
of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in
the estimates and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related
SEC 10 value of proved  reserves  set forth in this  Report.  In  addition,  the
Company's  reserves  may be subject to  downward  or upward  revisions  based on
production  performance,  purchases  or sales of  properties,  results of future
development,  prevailing  oil and  gas  prices  and  other  factors.  Therefore,
estimates of the SEC 10 value of proved reserves contained in this Report should
not be  construed as  estimates  of the current  market  value of the  Company's
proved reserves.

      SEC 10 value is a reporting  convention  that  provides a common basis for
comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC.
It  requires  the  use of oil  and  gas  prices  prevailing  as of the  date  of
computation.  Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or
that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price  fluctuations or
other  varying  market  conditions.  SEC  10  values  as of  any  date  are  not
necessarily indicative of future results of operations.  Accordingly,  estimates
of future net revenues in this Report may be materially  different  from the net
revenues that are ultimately received.

      The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves
during 1997 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.

Proved Reserves

      The Company's  proved  reserves  totaled 761.6 million BOE at December 31,
1997,  302.2  million BOE at December 31, 1996 and 296.8 million BOE at December
31,  1995,   representing   $3.1   billion,   $2.3  billion  and  $1.4  billion,
respectively,  in SEC 10 value.  The Company  achieved these annual increases in
reserves  despite having sold reserves of 18.1 million BOE in 1997, 45.8 million
BOE in 1996 and 34.8 million BOE in 1995.

      On a BOE basis, 86% of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31,
1997 are proved developed reserves.  Based on reserve information as of December
31, 1997 and using the Company's reserve report production information for 1998,
the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves is
11.3 years on a BOE basis.  The following table provides  information  regarding
the Company's  proved  reserves by geographic  area as of and for the year ended
December 31, 1997.

                           PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             1997 Average
                          Proved Reserves as of December 31, 1997        Daily Production (a)
                        ------------------------------------------   ---------------------------
                          Oil       Natural               SEC 10       Oil      Natural
                        & NGLs        Gas                  Value     & NGLs       Gas
                        (MBbls)     (MMcf)     MBOE        (000)     (Bbls)      (Mcf)     BOE
                        -------    --------   -------   ----------   -------   --------   ------
<S>                     <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>       <C>        <C>
United States:
 Gulf Coast Region....    19,289    316,238    71,996  $   412,296     5,919   110,657    24,362
 MidContinent Region..   102,331   1,101,421  285,901    1,153,385     9,828   101,860    26,805
 Permian Basin........   207,696    301,471   257,941      931,345    32,847    74,792    45,312
                        --------   --------   -------    ---------   -------   -------   -------
                         329,316   1,719,130  615,838    2,497,026    48,594   287,309    96,479
Argentina.............    31,612    340,392    88,344      345,721       406       -         406
Canada................    22,796    207,868    57,441      232,925       -         -         -
                        --------   --------   -------    ---------   -------   -------   -------

  Total...............   383,724   2,267,390  761,623  $ 3,075,672    49,000   287,309    96,885
                        ========   =========  =======   ==========   =======   =======   =======
</TABLE>
- ---------------
(a)  The 1997 average daily  production  is calculated  using a 365-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.

  Reserve Replacement

      For the ninth consecutive year, the Company was able to replace its annual
production  volumes  with proved  reserves of crude oil,  NGLs and natural  gas,
stated on an energy  equivalent  basis.  During  1997,  the Company  added 512.9
million BOE resulting in reserve  replacement of 1450% of total  production.  Of
the 512.9  million BOE reserve  additions,  457.7 million BOE were added through
acquisitions  of  proved   properties,   2.4  million  BOE  were  added  through

                                       13

<PAGE>



exploration  and development  drilling  activities and 52.8 million BOE were the
net result of revisions.  Reserves added by  development  drilling are primarily
from  the  identification  of  additional  infill  drilling  locations  and  new
secondary  recovery  projects.  Reserve  revisions  result from several  factors
including changes in existing  estimates of quantities  available for production
and changes in estimates of  quantities  which are  economical  to produce under
current pricing conditions.  The Company's reserves as of December 31, 1997 were
estimated  using a price of $16.89  per Bbl of oil,  $12.79  per Bbl of NGLs and
$2.06 per Mcf of gas. Should prices decline in future  periods,  reserves may be
revised  downward for quantities  which may be  uneconomical to produce at lower
prices.

      The  Company's  1997  reserve  replacement  rate on a BOE basis was 1450%,
which included  reserve  replacement  rates for oil and natural gas of 1375% and
1528%, respectively. Previous reserve replacement performance rates were 314% in
1996 (398% for oil and 239% for gas) and 281% in 1995 (263% for oil and 297% for
gas).  For the three year period ended  December 31, 1997,  the average  reserve
replacement rate was 769%, as compared to a three year average  replacement rate
of 377% in 1996 and 412% in 1995. During 1997, the Company's reserve replacement
rate was primarily the product of its acquisition activities.  In 1995, and to a
greater extent in 1996, the reserve  replacement  rates were  influenced more by
exploration and development activities and less by acquisition activities.

  Finding Cost

      The Company's  acquisition  and finding cost for 1997 was $8.23 per BOE as
compared to the 1996 and 1995  acquisition  and finding costs of $3.10 and $2.87
per BOE, respectively.  The increased rate in 1997 is a result of the fair value
associated with Mesa's and Chauvco's  long-lived,  low production cost reserves.
The average  acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period from 1995 to
1997 was $7.04 per BOE  representing  a 76%  increase  from the 1996  three-year
average rate of $3.99.

  Oil and Gas Mix

      The Company seeks to maintain a strategic  balance between oil and natural
gas reserves and production.  While the Company's reserve and production mix may
vary  somewhat on a short-term  basis as the Company  takes  advantage of market
conditions and specific  acquisition and development  opportunities,  management
believes that a relative mix of  approximately  50% oil and NGLs and 50% natural
gas is in the best long-term interests of the Company and its stockholders.  The
Company's reserve mix was 50% oil and NGLs and 50% gas at December 31, 1997, and
its production mix was 51% oil and NGLs and 49% gas during 1997.

Description of Properties

      The Company  manages its domestic oil and gas properties  based upon their
geographic  area,  and,  as a result,  the  Company  has  divided  its  domestic
operations into three domestic operating regions:  the Permian Basin region, the
onshore and offshore Gulf Coast region and the MidContinent region. In addition,
at December 31, 1997, the Company has  international  operations  principally in
Argentina and Canada.

      Gulf Coast.  The Gulf Coast region includes onshore oil and gas properties
located  in  South  and East  Texas,  Louisiana  and  Mississippi  and  offshore
properties  in the Gulf of Mexico.  In the Gulf  Coast  region,  the  Company is
focused  on reserve  and  production  growth  through a  balanced  portfolio  of
development  and  exploration  activities.  To accomplish  this, the Company has
devoted most of its domestic  exploration  efforts to this region as well as its
investment in and utilization of 3-D seismic technology.

      Utilization  of 3-D seismic  technology  during 1997  yielded  substantial
results in the Company's Lopeno field which produces from the Wilcox  formation.
Gross gas  production  from this area  increased from 36 MMcf per day to 57 MMcf
per day during 1997 as a result of drilling  eight  development  wells,  most of
which were identified from 3-D seismic data. The Company has identified at least
eight  additional  drilling  locations after further  interpretation  of the 3-D
data. In addition, the Company continues to experience successful results in its
100% owned  Pawnee  field  which  produces  21 MMcf per day from 23 wells in the
Edwards formation.  The Company has been actively developing this field with new
drilling,  horizontal  recompletions,  adding  new  perforations  and  acidizing
existing  wellbores which increased field  production  seven MMcf per day during
1997.  A 3-D seismic  survey will be  utilized to identify  additional  drilling
locations in this field area.

                                       14

<PAGE>



      Cotton  Valley.  In May of 1997,  the Company  acquired a 35%  interest in
approximately  375,000 acres within the Cotton  Valley  Pinnacle Reef Trend from
Union Pacific Resources Company ("UPRC") for $26.9 million. The Company and UPRC
have signed an  exploration  agreement to jointly  explore and develop this area
located in eastern Texas.

      On December 19, 1997, the Company  completed the  acquisition of assets in
the East Texas Basin from  affiliates  of  American  Cometra,  Inc.  ("ACI") and
Rockland  Pipe Co.  ("Rockland"),  both  subsidiaries  of  Electrafina  S.A.  of
Belgium.  Purchase  consideration  consisted of $85 million cash and 1.6 million
shares of Company  common  stock.  The Company  acquired all of ACI's  producing
wells,  acreage  (95,000  gross and 38,000 net),  seismic  data,  royalties  and
mineral interests and Rockland's  gathering system,  pipeline and Plum Creek gas
processing  plant in the East Texas Basin. The acquired acreage is in Henderson,
Freestone,  Anderson  and  Leon  counties.  The  acquired  wells  are  currently
producing  approximately  18 MMcf of gas per  day and  have  significant  upside
potential with the planned drilling of additional wells.

      During 1998, the Company plans an aggressive  drilling program in the Gulf
Coast region with a total  budget of $157.5  million to drill  approximately  49
exploratory  wells  and  25  development  wells.  Exploration  expenditures  are
estimated at $75 million and will be focused in the inland water transition zone
areas of Louisiana and Texas and the Cotton  Valley  Pinnacle Reef Trend in East
Texas.  During 1998, the Company will focus development  activities in five core
properties: Lopeno and Pawnee fields in South Texas, Timbalier Bay and Grand Bay
fields in South Louisiana and Eugene Island 208 field in the Gulf of Mexico.

      MidContinent.  The MidContinent  region includes properties located in the
Texas  Panhandle,  Oklahoma,  Arkansas and Kansas.  By far, the largest of these
assets is the Company's Hugoton field followed by the West Panhandle field, both
acquired  from Mesa in  August  1997.  These two  fields  combined  account  for
approximately  $1 billion of the Company's  $3.1 billion of SEC 10 reserve value
at December 31,  1997.  During 1998,  the Company  plans to spend  approximately
$48.8  million in the  MidContinent  region.  This  activity  includes  drilling
approximately  110 development  wells and six  exploratory  wells and performing
recompletions on approximately 26 targeted wells.

      Hugoton Field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest
producing gas fields in the  continental  United States.  The Company's  Hugoton
properties  represent  approximately 13% of the proved reserves in the field and
are located on over 237,000 net acres, covering  approximately 400 square miles.
The  Company has working  interest in  approximately  1,200 wells in the Hugoton
field,  977 of which it  operates,  and royalty  interest in  approximately  750
wells.  The Company  owns  substantially  all of the  gathering  and  processing
facilities,  primarily the Satanta plant,  that service its production  from the
Hugoton  field.  Such  ownership  allows the Company to control the  production,
gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.

      Production  in the  Hugoton  field is subject to  allowables  set by state
regulators,  but the  Company's  Hugoton  properties  are  capable of  producing
approximately  188 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead
before  processing and before  reduction for royalties).  The Company  estimates
that it and other  major  producers  in the  Hugoton  field  produced at or near
capacity in 1997. By continuing its successful  installation  of compression and
artificial  lift, in  combination  with an extensive  stimulation  program and a
selective  replacement well drilling program,  the Company  anticipates that the
normal 8% Hugoton properties production decline may be temporarily arrested.

      The Company  intends to submit an  application  to the Kansas  Corporation
Commission  (the  "KCC")  to  allow  infill  drilling  into  the  Council  Grove
Formation.  The  Company  believes  that such  infill  drilling  could  increase
production  from its  Hugoton  properties.  There can be no  assurance  that the
application  will be approved or as to the timing of receipt of such approval if
such approval is obtained.

      West Panhandle  Field.  The West  Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet.  The Company's  natural gas in the West  Panhandle  field is produced from
approximately  600 wells on more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering
over 375  square  miles.  The  Company's  wellhead  gas  produced  from the West
Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs,  yielding  relatively  greater
NGL volumes than realized from other  natural gas fields.  The Company  operates
the wells and production  equipment and Colorado Interstate Gas Company owns and
operates the gathering system.

                                       15

<PAGE>



      The  production  from the West  Panhandle  field is processed  through the
Company-owned  Fain natural gas processing  plant. In February 1997, the Company
initiated a project to add nitrogen  rejection  capabilities  at the Fain Plant.
This  project,  which is scheduled for  completion  in mid-1998,  will allow the
Company to recover in excess of 90% of the helium in the processed gas, increase
NGL recoveries and upgrade residue quality to improve marketing flexibility.

      As  of  December  31,  1997,  the  Company's  West  Panhandle   properties
represented  approximately  12% of the Company's  equivalent proved reserves and
approximately  12% of the  present  value of  estimated  future net cash  flows,
determined in accordance with SEC guidelines. The Company has identified over 50
locations that have additional production potential in new areas or deeper zones
that the Company plans to redrill in 1998.

      Permian  Basin.  Of the $931.3  million of SEC 10 value  contained  in the
properties in the Permian Basin region,  the Spraberry field accounts for $642.6
million.  The  Spraberry  field was  discovered  in 1949 and  encompasses  eight
counties in West Texas. The field is  approximately  150 miles long and 75 miles
wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and
the gas produced is casinghead  gas with an average Btu content of 1,400 Btu per
Mcf.  The oil and gas is  produced  from three  formations,  the upper and lower
Spraberry  and the Dean,  at depths  ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet.  The
center of the  Spraberry  field was unitized in the late 1950's and early 1960's
by the major oil  companies but until the late 1980's  experienced  very limited
development  activity.  Since 1989,  the Company  has  focused  acquisition  and
development  drilling  activities in the unitized portion of the Spraberry field
due to the  dormant  condition  of the  properties  and  the  high  net  revenue
interests   available.   The  Company   believes   the  area  offers   excellent
opportunities  to  enhance  oil and gas  reserves  because  of the  hundreds  of
undeveloped  infill  drilling  locations  and the  ability  to reduce  operating
expenses  through  economies  of scale.  In February  1997,  the Texas  Railroad
Commission (which regulates oil and gas production) entered a favorable order on
the  Company's  application  to allow  administrative  approval  of  uncontested
applications to increase the density of drilling in the Spraberry field from one
well per 80 acres to one well in 40 acres.  The Company  believes  such  reduced
spacing may provide in excess of 1,000 additional  drilling locations which have
the  potential to add 70 million BOE's to the  Company's  reserve base.  Through
December 31, 1997, the Company has drilled 60 wells in the Spraberry field under
the reduced spacing requirements  resulting in the addition of approximately 6.9
million BOE's to its reserve portfolio.

      Since the early 1960's,  the Company has been involved in acquisition  and
development  activities in other fields in the Permian region which includes all
of West Texas and Southeastern  New Mexico.  The Iatan field in Mitchell County,
Texas,  the Lusk and Dagger Draw fields in Eddy  County,  New Mexico,  the Abell
(Devonian)  field in Crane  and Pecos  Counties  of  Texas,  the Ozona  field in
Crockett  and  Sutton  Counties  of Texas  and the  War-Wink  West  Field in the
Delaware  Basin of West Texas are core areas for the  Company's  Permian  region
operations in terms of existing  production,  production and reserve growth, and
identification of additional drilling locations.

      The Company  will  continue to focus on the  development  of the  existing
properties utilizing waterflood  procedures and secondary recovery  technologies
as these efforts have  consistently  resulted in increased  production,  reserve
additions due to development drilling, and new drilling locations.  In addition,
all of the fields in this  operational  group have been screened for feasibility
for carbon  dioxide  (CO2) flood  implementation,  and the Company plans to move
forward in utilizing this technology in 1998. In total, the Company  anticipates
spending $112.5 million in 1998 in the Permian Basin to drill  approximately 295
wells and to perform recompletions on approximately 135 targeted wells.
Development activities will account for 95% of these planned expenditures.

      International.  The  acquisition  of Chauvco  provided  the Company with a
significant  presence in Argentina  and Canada,  representing  11% and 8% of the
Company's SEC 10 value at December 31, 1997. The Canadian  producing  properties
are primarily located in Alberta and British  Columbia,  Canada in the following
areas: Thompson/Alliance, Spirit River/Rycroft, Cherhill, Killam, Choice, David,
Martin Creek and Chinchaga. During 1997, these properties produced an average of
17,532 BOE's per day, net to the Company's interest.  These properties currently
include more than 700 development drilling locations.

      The Company's Argentine properties are primarily located in the Tierra del
Fuego and Neuquen basins.  Chauvco's share of Argentine  production  during 1997
averaged  16,147 BOE's per day. The Tierra del Fuego  production  concession  is
located in the extreme southern portion of Argentina,  approximately 1,500 miles
south of the country's capital, Buenos Aires. Crude oil, natural gas, condensate
and NGLs  are produced  from six separate  fields in which the Company has a 35%

                                       16

<PAGE>



working  interest.  The most  significant  area is the San Sebastian field which
accounts for approximately 40% of crude oil and condensate  production,  100% of
propane and butane production, and 84% of natural gas sales from the concession.
In  Argentina,  recent  expansion of gas  processing  facilities  and  completed
pipeline  connections  at Tierra  del Fuego  will allow  handling  of  increased
production   volumes   committed  for  delivery   under  a  gas  contract  to  a
petrochemical  plant in Chile.  Natural gas deliveries under the contract to the
methanol  plant in Chile  commenced  in January  1997 at a rate of 17.0 MMcf per
day.

      The  Company's  operated  production in Argentina is  concentrated  in the
Neuquen  Basin  which is  located  about 925 miles  southwest  of the  country's
capital city and just to the east of the Andes Mountains.  Crude oil and natural
gas are  produced  from two  separate  fields in the Loma  Negra/NI  Block,  the
Huincul  field in the Dadin  Block and from three oil fields and one natural gas
field in the Al Norte de la Dorsal Block in which the Company has a 100% working
interest.

      In  addition  to the  proved  producing  assets of  Chauvco,  the  Company
acquired a substantial  inventory of unproved oil and gas properties  which will
provide the Company with many exploration  opportunities  with the potential for
significant  reserve  additions.  Although  the  acquisition  of a portfolio  of
unproved  properties  represents an exciting  challenge to the Company's team of
engineers,  geologists and  geophysicists,  such  opportunities  are not without
risk.   U.S.   GAAP   requires   periodic   evaluation   of  these  costs  on  a
project-by-project   basis  in  comparison  to  their  estimated  value.   These
evaluations will be affected by results of exploration activities,  future sales
or  expiration of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of proved
reserves  determined by such evaluations are not sufficient to fully recover the
cost  invested  in each  project,  the  Company  may be  required  to  recognize
significant  noncash charges to the earnings of future periods.  There can be no
assurance that economic reserves will be determined to exist for such projects.

      On a smaller scale,  the Company has recently  entered into  agreements to
begin exploratory activity in the African nations of South Africa and Gabon. The
South African  Block covers over five million acres along the southern  coast of
South  Africa,  generally  in water  depths  less than 650 feet.  It is  located
between Block 9, which produces quantities of oil from Oribi Field (up to 25,000
barrels per day) and gas from F-A Field (about 190 MMcf per day),  and Pioneer's
study block 13A/14A offshore Port Elizabeth.  In addition,  Pioneer concluded in
November of 1997, a Technical  Cooperation Agreement on Block 7 which is located
adjacent  to and  west of Block 9, and  covers  an area of about  three  million
acres, the most prospective portion of which is in water depths of less than 500
feet.

      The Company plans to spend approximately $181.2 million internationally in
1998 as follows: $97.5 million in Argentina,  $57.5 million in Canada, and $26.2
million in Africa and other  international  areas.  The Company's  international
exploration budget of $50 million is primarily devoted to Africa,  Argentina and
Canada.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

      The following  tables set forth selected oil and gas  information  for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities  and  the  effects  of  future  acquisitions  or  divestitures,   the
historical  information  presented below should not be interpreted as indicative
of future results.

                                       17

<PAGE>



      Production,   Price  and  Cost  Data.  The  following   table  sets  forth
production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

                       PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      Year ended December 31,
                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 1997                         1996                             1995
                    -----------------------------  -----------------------------  -----------------------------
                                                           Australia(b)
                     United                        United      and                United
                     States   Argentina    Total   States   Argentina    Total    States    Australia   Total
                    --------  ---------  --------  -------  ----------  --------  --------  ---------  --------
<S>                 <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
  Oil (MBbls).....    13,470       148     13,618    10,872       403     11,275    11,328     1,574     12,902
  NGLs  (MBbls)...     4,267       -        4,267       -         -          -         -         -          -
  Gas (MMcf)......   104,868       -      104,868    73,924     1,927     75,851    76,669     8,626     85,295
  Total (MBOE)....    35,215       148     35,363    23,193       723     23,916    24,106     3,012     27,118
 Average daily
   production:
    Oil (Bbls)....    36,903       406     37,309    29,705     1,100     30,805    31,036     4,312     35,348
    NGLs (Bbls)...    11,691       -       11,691       -         -          -         -         -          -
    Gas (Mcf).....   287,309       -      287,309   201,979     5,265    207,244   210,052    23,633    233,685
    Total (BOE)...    96,479       406     96,885    63,368     1,978     65,346    66,045     8,251     74,296
Average prices:
 Oil (per Bbl)....  $  18.50   $ 19.68   $  18.51  $  19.96   $ 19.81   $  19.96  $  16.70   $ 18.78   $  16.96
 NGLs (per Bbl)...  $  12.59   $   -     $  12.59  $    -     $   -     $    -    $    -     $   -     $    -
 Gas (per Mcf)....  $   2.20   $   -     $   2.20  $   2.27   $  1.95   $   2.27  $   1.84   $  1.88   $   1.84
 Revenue (per BOE)  $  15.16   $ 19.68   $  15.18  $  16.61   $ 16.21   $  16.60  $  13.69   $ 15.21   $  13.85
Average costs:
 Production costs
  (per BOE):
   Lease operating
    expense.......  $   3.01   $  5.47   $   3.02  $   3.39   $  4.75   $   3.43  $   3.97   $  4.12   $   3.99
   Production taxes.     .81       .19        .81       .94       -          .91       .70       -          .62
   Workover.......       .25       -          .25       .28       -          .27       .25       -          .22
                     -------    ------    -------   -------    ------    -------   -------     -----    -------
     Total........  $   4.07   $  5.66   $   4.08  $   4.61   $  4.75   $   4.61  $   4.92   $  4.12   $   4.83
 Depletion expense
   (per BOE)......  $   5.77   $  8.70   $   5.78  $   4.25   $  5.73   $   4.30  $   5.19   $  6.74   $   5.36
- ---------------
</TABLE>
(a)  These amounts are calculated  without making pro forma  adjustments for any
     acquisitions,  divestitures  or drilling  activity that occurred during the
     respective years.

(b) Represents production associated with the Company's Australian  subsidiaries
prior to their divestiture in 1996.

                                       18

<PAGE>



      Productive  Wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995.

                                                PRODUCTIVE WELLS(a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Gross Productive Wells       Net Productive Wells
                                     ------------------------    -----------------------
                                       Oil     Gas     Total       Oil    Gas     Total
                                     ------   ------   ------    ------  ------   ------
<S>                                  <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>      <C> 
Year ended December 31, 1997:
   United States..................    6,075    3,931   10,006     3,399   2,326    5,725
   Argentina......................      213       53      266       154      38      192
   Canada.........................    1,666      428    2,094       667     202      869
                                     ------   ------   ------    ------  ------   ------
   Total..........................    7,954    4,412   12,366     4,220   2,566    6,786
                                     ======   ======   ======    ======  ======   ======
Year ended December 31, 1996:
   United States..................    5,572    1,393    6,965     3,119     650    3,769
   Argentina......................        5      -          5         1     -          1
                                     ------   ------   ------    ------  ------   ------
   Total..........................    5,577    1,393    6,970     3,120     650    3,770
                                     ======   ======   ======    ======  ======   ======
Year ended December 31, 1995:
   United States..................    6,138    2,137    8,275     3,198     680    3,878
   Australia and Other Foreign....      112      450      562        27      54       81
                                     ------   ------   ------    ------  ------   ------
   Total..........................    6,250    2,587    8,837     3,225     734    3,959
                                     ======   ======   ======    ======  ======   ======
</TABLE>
- ---------------
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December  31, 1997,  the Company  owned  interests in 182 wells  containing
     multiple completions.

      Leasehold  Acreage.  The following table sets forth  information about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 1997.

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     Developed Acreage        Undeveloped Acreage
                                  ------------------------   ------------------------   Royalty
                                  Gross Acres   Net Acres    Gross Acres   Net Acres    Acreage
                                  -----------   ----------   -----------   ----------   --------
<S>                               <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 1997:
  United States.................    1,665,292      989,027     1,472,049      591,005    420,907
  Canada........................      331,000      152,000       701,000      478,000        -
  Argentina.....................      697,683      301,820     1,650,769    1,027,490        -
                                  -----------   ----------   -----------   ----------   --------
  Total.........................    2,693,975    1,442,847     3,823,818    2,096,495    420,907
                                  ===========   ==========   ===========   ==========   ========
</TABLE>
      Drilling  Activities.  The following  table sets forth the number of gross
and net  productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled and completed  during the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995.
This information should not be considered indicative of future performance,  nor
should it be assumed  that there is  necessarily  any  correlation  between  the
number  of  productive  wells  drilled  and the oil and gas  reserves  generated
thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of
dry wells.

                                       19

<PAGE>



                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES

                                      Gross Wells                Net Wells
                              Year Ended December 31,    Year Ended December 31,
                              ----------------------     ----------------------
                               1997   1996(b)   1995      1997   1996(b)   1995
                              -----   ------   -----     -----   ------   -----
United States:
 Productive wells:
  Development................   483     535      432     341.2    362.9   307.0
  Exploratory................    38      37       30      23.8     24.2    18.0
 Dry holes:
  Development................    18       7        7       8.8      4.4     2.1
  Exploratory................    46      10       16      30.3      6.0     4.7
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
                                585     589      485     404.1    397.5   331.8
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
Australia and other foreign:
 Productive wells:
  Development................    -        2        6       -         .3     1.4
  Exploratory................    -       -         1       -        -        .3
 Dry holes:
  Development................    -        1       -        -         .2     -
  Exploratory................     1       1        9        .4       .2     2.8
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
                                  1       4       16        .4       .7     4.5
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
Argentina:
 Productive wells:
  Development................     4       3       -         .6       .4     -
  Exploratory................     1      -         1        .1      -        .1
 Dry holes:
  Development................    -       -        -         -         -      -
  Exploratory................     1       3        7        .1       .4     1.0
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
                                  6       6        8        .8       .8     1.1
                              -----   -----    -----     -----   ------   -----
    Total....................   592     599      509     405.3    399.0   337.4
                              =====   =====    =====     =====   ======   =====

Success ratio(a).............   89%     96%      92%       90%      97%     97%
- ---------------

(a) Represents those wells that were successfully completed as productive wells.

(b)  The 1996 Australian  amounts include only three months of activity  related
     to the Company's Australian properties prior to their sale in March 1996.

      The following table sets forth  information about the Company's wells that
were in progress at December 31, 1997.

                                          Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                          -----------    ---------
     United States:
       Development.......................      112           82.0
       Exploratory.......................       13            9.1
                                             -----         ------
                                               125           91.1
                                             -----         ------
     Canada:
       Development.......................        1            0.9
       Exploratory.......................        1            0.6
                                             -----         ------
                                                 2            1.5
                                             -----         ------
     Argentina:
       Development.......................        5            5.0
       Exploratory.......................        4            2.3
                                             -----         ------
                                                 9            7.3
                                             -----         ------
          Total..........................      136           99.9
                                             =====         ======

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is party to various  legal  proceedings,  which are  described
under "Legal  Actions" in Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  The claims for
damages from such other legal  actions are not in excess of 10% of the Company's
current assets and the Company believes none of these actions to be material.

                                       20

<PAGE>



ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Acquisition of Chauvco

      On December 18, 1997, the Company held a Special Meeting for  stockholders
in Dallas,  Texas. The Special Meeting related to the acquisition by the Company
of the Canadian and Argentine oil and gas businesses of Chauvco  Resources Ltd.,
an  Alberta   corporation,   and  the  spinoff  to  Chauvco   shareholders   and
optionholders   of  Chauvco's   Gabonese  oil  and  gas   operations  and  other
international  interests  (the  "Combination  Agreement").  Also on December 18,
1997, Chauvco held a Special Meeting for its stockholders in Alberta,  Canada in
connection with the Combination Agreement. Each of the proposals was approved by
stockholders as follows:

The Company
- -----------
                                                                    Broker
   Proposal                     For        Against     Abstain     Non-Votes
   --------                 ----------     -------     -------     ---------
Combination Agreement       57,282,078     345,596     285,770            -

Chauvco
- -------
                                                                    Broker
   Proposal                     For        Against     Abstain     Non-Votes
   --------                 ----------     -------     -------     ---------
Combination Agreement       43,788,841       1,226         -              -


                                       21

<PAGE>



                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

      The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and  traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock  Exchange  under the symbol "PXD".  The following
table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  the high and low sales prices for
the Company's common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite
transactions, and the amount of dividends paid.
                                                                   Dividends
                                             High        Low     Paid per share
                                          ---------   --------   --------------
1997
   Fourth quarter.....................    $43 13/16   $ 25 5/8           -
   Third quarter......................    $  44 3/8   $ 34 3/4        $.05
   Second quarter.....................    $ 36 3/16   $ 28 1/2           -
   First quarter......................    $  37 5/8   $ 28 7/8        $.05
1996
   Fourth quarter.....................    $  37 1/4   $ 26 1/8           -
   Third quarter......................    $  27 3/4   $ 22 1/4        $.05
   Second quarter.....................    $  27 7/8   $ 22 3/4           -
   First quarter......................    $  23 3/4   $ 19 3/8        $.05

      On February  27,  1998,  the last  reported  sales price of the  Company's
common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions,
was $23.69 per share.

      As  of  February  27,  1998,  the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 55,000 holders of record, representing approximately 112,000 total
owners.

      Since the third  quarter of 1991,  the Company has paid a cash dividend of
$.05 per share of common stock in the first and third  quarters of each calendar
year. Subject to the continuation of successful operations and the discretion of
the Company's  Board of Directors,  the Company intends to continue to declare a
$.05 per share  dividend on a  semi-annual  basis to achieve an annual  dividend
level of $.10 per share.  The Company's Board of Directors may from time to time
reconsider the dividend  policy and make any changes that it deems  appropriate.
There can be no assurance  that any future  dividends or  distributions  will be
paid on the Company's common stock.

      On December 19, 1997, the Company completed the purchase of certain assets
in the East Texas Basin from affiliates of American  Cometra,  Inc. and Rockland
Pipeline Co., both of which are subsidiaries of Electrafina S.A. of Belgium. The
total  consideration  paid was  approximately  $130  million,  consisting of $85
million in cash and 1.6 million shares of the Company's common stock. The common
stock, which was issued in a private placement, was distributed to the following
persons:
                                         Common Stock         Common Stock
                                        Owned Prior to        Acquired in
                                         Transaction          Transaction
                                        --------------        -----------

      Cometra Energy, L.P.                       0             1,605,290
      Terry N. McClure                           0                 9,800
      James D. Paquin                            0                19,600
      Mark W. Young                          1,000                19,600

In connection with such purchase of assets,  the Company agreed to file and keep
continuously effective for up to 24 months a registration statement covering the
resale  of the  common  stock  issued  in  the  transaction.  Such  registration
statement was declared effective by the SEC on March 2, 1998.


                                       22

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The following selected consolidated  financial data for the Company should
be read in  conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"  and the Company's  Consolidated
Financial Statements,  related notes and other financial information included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year ended December 31,
                                               -------------------------------------------------
                                                1997(a)     1996      1995     1994(b)   1993(c)
                                               ---------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                      (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                            <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues:
    Oil and gas..............................  $   536.8  $  396.9  $  375.7  $  337.6  $  207.2
    Natural gas processing...................        -        23.8      33.2      39.2      77.5
    Gas marketing............................        -         -        76.8     103.0      43.8
    Interest and other.......................        4.3      17.5      11.4       6.9       4.4
    Gain on disposition of assets, net(d)....        4.9      97.1      16.6       9.5      23.2
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
                                                   546.0     535.3     513.7     496.2     356.1
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production...................      144.2     110.3     130.9     127.1      78.3
    Natural gas processing...................        -        12.5      25.9      33.6      51.6
    Gas marketing............................        -         -        75.7     101.5      42.8
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization.      212.4     112.1     159.1     145.4      80.4
    Impairment of oil and gas properties and
      natural gas processing facilities......    1,356.4       -       130.5       -         -
    Exploration and abandonments.............       77.2      23.0      27.5      25.2       3.6
    General and administrative...............       48.8      28.4      37.4      29.0      23.8
    Interest.................................       77.5      46.2      65.4      50.6      23.3
    Other....................................        7.1       2.5      11.3       4.3       3.9
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
                                                 1,923.6     335.0     663.7     516.7     307.7
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
  Income (loss) before income taxes,
    extraordinary item and cumulative effect
    of accounting change.....................   (1,377.6)    200.3    (150.0)    (20.5)     48.4
  Income tax benefit (provision).............      500.3     (60.1)     45.9       6.5     (17.0)
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item and
    cumulative effect of accounting change...     (877.3)    140.2    (104.1)    (14.0)     31.4
  Extraordinary item.........................      (13.4)      -         4.3       (.6)      -
  Cumulative effect of accounting change.....        -         -         -         -        17.1
                                                --------   -------   -------   -------   -------
Net income (loss)............................  $  (890.7) $  140.2  $  (99.8) $  (14.6) $   48.5
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
  Income (loss) before  extraordinary  item
    and cumulative  effect of accounting
    change per share:
      Basic..................................  $  (16.88) $   3.95  $  (2.96) $   (.47) $   1.15
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
      Diluted................................  $  (16.88) $   3.47  $  (2.96) $   (.47) $   1.12
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
  Net income (loss) per share:
    Basic....................................  $  (17.14) $   3.95  $  (2.84) $   (.49) $   1.77
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
    Diluted..................................  $  (17.14) $   3.47  $  (2.84) $   (.49) $   1.73
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
  Dividends per share .......................  $     .10  $    .10  $    .10  $    .10  $    .10
                                                ========   =======   =======   =======   =======
  Weighted average shares outstanding........       52.0      35.5      35.1      29.9      27.4
Other Financial Data:
  Cash flows from operating activities.......  $   228.2  $  230.1  $  156.6  $  129.8  $  112.2
  Cash flows from investing activities.......     (341.2)     13.7     (52.6)   (446.0)   (398.2)
  Cash flows from financing activities.......      166.0    (245.4)   (107.9)    331.4     278.9
Balance Sheet Data:
  Working capital............................  $    46.6  $   26.1  $   31.5  $   43.7  $   39.5
  Property, plant and equipment, net.........    3,515.8   1,040.4   1,121.7   1,349.9     802.0
  Total assets...............................    3,946.6   1,199.9   1,319.2   1,604.9   1,016.9
  Long-term obligations......................    2,124.0     329.0     603.2     727.2     544.3
  Preferred stock of subsidiary..............        -       188.8     188.8     188.8       -
  Total stockholders' equity.................    1,548.8     530.3     411.0     509.6     348.8
</TABLE>
- ---------------
                                       23

<PAGE>



(a) Includes  amounts  relating to the  acquisition  of Mesa beginning in August
    1997.

(b)  Includes  amounts relating to the acquisition of Bridge Oil Limited in July
     1994 and the  acquisition  of  properties  from PG&E  Resources  Company in
     August 1994.

(c)  Includes  amounts  relating to the acquisition of certain  Prudential-Bache
     Energy  limited  partnerships  in  July  1993.  Also  includes  results  of
     operations related to the Company's interest in the Carthage gas processing
     plant that had been  deferred in 1992 and 1993 and the gain of $7.3 million
     recognized on the sale of that interest on June 30, 1993.

(d)  Includes a  gain of  $83.3 million in  1996 related  to the  disposition of
     certain wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                       24

<PAGE>



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Formation of Pioneer

      Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation,
was  formed  by the  merger of Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company  ("Parker  &
Parsley")  and  MESA  Inc.   ("Mesa")  on  August  7,  1997.   The  Company  was
significantly  expanded  by  the  subsequent  acquisition  of the  Canadian  and
Argentine oil and gas business of Chauvco Resources Ltd. ("Chauvco"), a publicly
traded independent oil and gas company based in Calgary,  Canada on December 18,
1997.  The Company is an oil and gas  exploration  and  production  company with
ownership  interests  in oil  and  gas  properties  located  principally  in the
MidContinent,  Southwestern  and onshore and offshore  Gulf Coast regions of the
United States and in Argentina and Canada.

      Combining the physical assets and management teams of Parker & Parsley and
Mesa into the Company created a company with a solid  foundation of core assets.
This  foundation  includes  three core areas (the  Hugoton gas field  located in
Southwest  Kansas,  the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle,
and the Spraberry oil and gas field in West Texas) that provide  consistent  and
dependable  production,  cash  flow and  ongoing  development  opportunities;  a
reserve portfolio which is balanced between oil and natural gas liquids and gas;
a  portfolio  of exciting  exploration  opportunities;  and a team of  dedicated
employees  representing  the  professional  disciplines  and sciences which will
allow the  Company  to  continue  to  provide  its  shareholders  with  superior
long-term value.

      The Company's first  significant  accomplishment  after the merger was the
acquisition of Chauvco.  The Chauvco acquisition  provided the Company with 87.6
MMBOE and 57.4 MMBOE of proved  reserves in Argentina and Canada,  respectively,
and a  substantial  inventory  of  unproved  oil and gas  properties  which will
provide the Company with many exploration  opportunities  with the potential for
significant  reserve  additions.  Although the  acquisition  of the portfolio of
unproved  properties  from  Chauvco  represents  an  exciting  challenge  to the
Company's team of engineers,  geologists and  geophysicists,  such opportunities
are not without risk. U.S. GAAP requires periodic  evaluations of these costs on
a  project-by-project  basis in  comparison  to  their  estimated  value.  These
evaluations will be affected by results of exploration activities,  future sales
or  expiration of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of proved
reserves  determined by such evaluations are not sufficient to fully recover the
cost  invested  in each  project,  the  Company  may be  required  to  recognize
significant  noncash charges to the earnings of future periods.  There can be no
assurance that economic reserves will be determined to exist for such projects.

      In accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles  Board No. 16,
"Business  Combinations",  both the  merger  with  Mesa and the  acquisition  of
Chauvco have been accounted for as purchases by the Company  (formerly  Parker &
Parsley).  As a result, the historical  financial statements for the Company are
those of Parker & Parsley,  and the Company's  financial  statements present the
addition of Mesa's and Chauvco's assets and liabilities as an acquisition by the
Company  in  August  and  December   1997,   respectively.   Specifically,   the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows  include the financial  results of Mesa  beginning in August 1997.
The aggregate  purchase  consideration  related to the assets and liabilities of
Mesa and Chauvco,  including  transaction  costs,  was $991.0 million and $696.4
million, respectively.

Financial Performance

      The Company  reported a net loss of $890.7  million  ($17.14 per share) as
compared to net income of $140.2  million  ($3.95 per share) for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  The 1997 loss is primarily generated
by a noncash  charge of $1.4 billion  ($863  million  after-tax)  in December of
1997, resulting from an impairment charge taken in accordance with the Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121,  "Accounting  for the Impairment of
Long-Lived  Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"). In
addition  to the above,  the  process  of  organizationally,  operationally  and
financially  combining  Parker & Parsley and Mesa to create the Company resulted
in the  following  pre-tax  charges:  the  redemption of two issuances of senior
notes at a loss of $18.3 million;  $6.4 million of relocation  expenses and $1.9
million of severance  expenses;  and a $2.3 million write-off of commitment fees
related to Parker & Parsley's  credit facility that was replaced with a new $1.4
billion credit agreement for the Company during 1997. As discussed more fully in
"Results of Operations" below, the Company's  financial  performance during 1997
has  been  positively  affected  by  increases  in oil  and gas  production  and

                                       25

<PAGE>



decreases in  production  costs per BOE due to ongoing cost  reduction  efforts,
offset by decreases in commodity  prices,  increases in exploration  and general
and  administrative  expenses  and an increase  in  interest  expense due to the
additional  debt assumed from Mesa.  The year ended  December 31, 1996  includes
$67.3  million  ($1.90  per  share)  related  to net  after-tax  gains  on asset
dispositions   primarily  due  to  the  sale  of  the   Company's   Australasian
subsidiaries.

      Net cash provided by operating  activities of $228.2  million for the year
ended  December  31, 1997 was  comparable  to $230.1  million for the year ended
December 31, 1996.  The additional  cash flow generated by increased  production
was offset by increased general and administrative expenses and interest expense
and the payment of certain liabilities assumed from Mesa.

      Long-term  debt has  increased  to $2.0  billion at December 31, 1997 from
$320.9  million at December 31, 1996 due  principally  to the  assumption of the
outstanding  debt of Mesa and Chauvco and the  property  acquisitions  described
below.  The  Company  strives to  maintain  its  outstanding  indebtedness  at a
moderate level in order to provide sufficient  financial  flexibility for future
opportunities.  The Company's total book capitalization at December 31, 1997 was
$3.5  billion,   consisting  of  total   long-term  debt  of  $2.0  billion  and
stockholders' equity of $1.5 billion. Consequently, the Company's long-term debt
to total  capitalization  increased  to 56% at  December  31,  1997  from 31% at
December 31, 1996.

1998 Outlook

      During 1998,  the Company  plans to accelerate  its  portfolio  management
initiatives  through a major divestiture  program focused on improving operating
efficiency and profitability. Approximately 95% of the Company's domestic fields
generate  only 15% of the Company's  total cash flow.  The Company plans to sell
these nonstrategic  fields for estimated proceeds of $375 to $550 million during
the latter  part of 1998.  The  proceeds  will be used to reduce  the  Company's
outstanding indebtedness and to fund the Company's capital expenditures program.
This will leave the Company with  approximately  25 fields,  which represent its
core   producing   assets  and   complementary   development   and   exploration
opportunities.

      The  consummation  of the  Company's  1998  divestiture  plans is entirely
dependent  on  finding  one or  more  willing  buyers  who  have  the  financial
wherewithal  to  complete  such a  purchase.  Until  such a buyer is found,  the
Company may  reevaluate  its portfolio of properties  and at any time may adjust
its plans concerning  divestitures.  As a result, there can be no assurance that
the divestiture of any or all of these  properties will be completed or that the
estimated proceeds will be realized.

      Coincidentally  with the  property  divestiture  program,  the Company has
announced its  intentions to reorganize  its operations to take advantage of the
economies of scale provided by the  concentration  of reserves in a small number
of fields.  The Company  will combine the six  domestic  regions  created by the
merger  between  Parker & Parsley and Mesa into three  geographic  regions:  the
Permian Basin region, the MidContinent  region and the onshore and offshore Gulf
Coast  region.   The  Company   anticipates  that  it  will  incur  nonrecurring
expenditures  of  approximately  $20  million  during  1998 as a result  of this
reorganization.

      During 1998,  the Company will continue its emphasis on core  development,
exploration and production activities,  with a primary focus on the exploitation
of its current portfolio of drilling locations. This portfolio was significantly
enhanced and expanded by the major acquisitions  completed in 1997. In addition,
the 1996 and 1997  drilling  programs have added a large number of new locations
to which proved  reserves  have been  assigned.  The Company  believes  that its
current portfolio of undeveloped  prospects provides attractive  development and
exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. The Company
expects to invest $500 million in capital  projects  during  1998.  Of the total
1998 capital expenditure budget of $500 million,  the Company has allocated $301
million to exploitation  activities,  $125 million to exploration activities and
$74 million to oil and gas property  acquisitions.  The Company anticipates that
the $426 million exploration and development budget will be spent geographically
as follows:  $106 million in the Permian Basin,  $142 million in the onshore and
offshore Gulf Coast, $47 million in the MidContinent, $26 million in Canada, $79
million in Argentina  and $26 million in Africa and other  international  areas.
This  capital   expenditure   budget   reflects  the  Company's  plan  to  drill
approximately  695 oil and gas wells. The Company  currently expects to fund its
1998 capital  expenditure budget primarily with  internally-generated  cash flow
and the proceeds from the 1998 oil and gas property divestiture program.

                                       26

<PAGE>



      This budget  reflects the Company's  ongoing  strategy to commit a greater
portion  of its  cash  flow  to  higher  growth  potential  projects,  including
significant 3-D seismic  projects.  Historically,  Mesa and Parker & Parsley had
each spent a small percentage of its respective capital on exploration projects.
The    Company    now    expects   to   spend    approximately    29%   of   its
exploration/exploitation capital budget on exploration.

      During  most of 1996 and 1997,  the  Company  benefitted  from  higher oil
prices as compared  to previous  years.  However,  during the fourth  quarter of
1997,  oil prices began a downward  trend that has continued  into March 1998. A
continuation of the oil price environment  experienced  during the first quarter
of 1998 will have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating cash
flow,  and may result in a downward  adjustment  to the  Company's  current 1998
capital budget of $500 million.  Also, a continuing  decline in oil prices could
result in  additional  decreases in the carrying  value of the Company's oil and
gas properties.

      The forward looking statements in these projections,  including statements
relating to capital budget, production,  cash flows and drilling activities, are
based upon a number of assumptions,  including among others,  limited changes in
oil and gas  prices  and the  accuracy  of reserve  engineering  studies.  These
assumptions may prove not to have been accurate.

Significant Activities in 1997

Property Acquisition Activities

      Cotton  Valley.  In May of 1997,  the Company  acquired a 35%  interest in
approximately  375,000 gross acres within the Cotton Valley  Pinnacle Reef Trend
from Union Pacific Resources Company ("UPRC") for $26.9 million. The Company and
UPRC have signed an  exploration  agreement to jointly  explore and develop this
area located in eastern Texas and plan to begin  drilling the first  exploration
well before the end of the year.

      On December 19, 1997, the Company  completed the  acquisition of assets in
the East Texas Basin from American  Cometra,  Inc. ("ACI") and Rockland Pipe Co.
("Rockland"),  both  subsidiaries  of  Electrafina  S.A. of  Belgium.  The total
consideration paid was approximately $130 million,  consisting of $85 million in
cash and 1.6 million shares of the Company's  common stock. The Company acquired
all of ACI's producing  wells,  acreage  (95,000 gross and 38,000 net),  seismic
data, royalties and mineral interests and Rockland's gathering system,  pipeline
and Plum  Creek gas  processing  plant in the East  Texas  Basin.  The  acquired
acreage is in Henderson,  Freestone,  Anderson and Leon  counties.  The acquired
wells are currently producing approximately 18 MMcf per day and have significant
future drilling opportunities.

      Maude Traylor.  In February of 1997, the Company completed the acquisition
of a majority  interest in the Maude Traylor field in Calhoun County,  Texas for
approximately  $8.8 million.  This  acquisition  represented an average  working
interest of 87% in  approximately  1,840 acres and five wells which produce from
the upper and lower Frio formations.

      Guatemala.  During May of 1997, the Company  finalized  negotiations  with
Triton Energy for a 40% working interest in a joint  exploration  program of two
blocks in  Guatemala's  South Peten  Basin.  Drilling on the Piedras  Blancas #1
resulted in an unsuccessful  exploratory  well at a total cost to the Company of
$5.4 million.

Exploration and Development Activities

      Drilling Activities. Excluding the merger with Mesa and the acquisition of
Chauvco, the Company's 1997 capital expenditures totaled $544 million reflecting
expenditures  of $247  million  for  exploitation  activities,  $96  million for
exploration activities and $201 million for oil and gas property acquisitions in
the  Company's  core  areas.  During  1997,  the  Company  participated  in  the
completion of 592 gross  exploration  and  development  wells,  453 wells in the
Permian region,  56 wells in the Gulf Coast region, 76 wells in the MidContinent
region,  six wells in Argentina  and one well in Guatemala.  Of these wells,  85
were in progress at December 31, 1996. Of the total wells  completed  during the
year ended  December  31,  1997,  526 wells were  completed  successfully  which
resulted in an 89% success rate. In addition to the wells completed during 1997,
the Company had 136 wells in progress at December 31, 1997.


                                       27

<PAGE>



      Proved  Reserves.  The Company's proved reserves totaled 761.6 million BOE
at December 31, 1997,  302.2  million BOE at December 31, 1996 and 296.8 million
BOE at December  31,  1995.  The Company  achieved  these  annual  increases  in
reserves  despite having sold reserves of 18.1 million BOE in 1997, 45.8 million
BOE in 1996 and 34.8 million BOE in 1995.  Oil and NGL reserves at year-end 1997
were 383.7  million Bbls  compared to 163.9  million  Bbls at year-end  1996 and
147.3  million Bbls at year-end  1995 (a 134%  increase from 1996 to 1997 and an
11%  increase  from 1995 to 1996).  Natural gas  reserves at year-end  1997 were
2,267.4  Bcf,  compared to 829.4 Bcf at year-end  1996 and 896.9 Bcf at year-end
1995 (a 173% increase from 1996 to 1997 and an 8% decrease from 1995 to 1996).

      Reserve Replacement.  For the ninth consecutive year, the Company was able
to replace its annual  production  volumes with proved reserves of crude oil and
natural gas,  stated on an energy  equivalent  basis.  During 1997,  the Company
added  512.9  million BOE  resulting  in reserve  replacement  of 1450% of total
production.  Of the 512.9 million BOE reserve additions,  457.7 million BOE were
added  through  acquisitions  of proved  properties,  2.4 million BOE were added
through  exploration  and development  drilling  activities and 52.8 million BOE
were the net result of revisions.  Reserves  added by  development  drilling are
primarily from the  identification of additional  infill drilling  locations and
new secondary recovery  projects.  Reserve revisions result from several factors
including changes in existing  estimates of quantities  available for production
and changes in estimates of  quantities  which are  economical  to produce under
current pricing conditions.  The Company's reserves as of December 31, 1997 were
estimated  using a price of $16.89  per Bbl for oil,  $12.79 per Bbl of NGLs and
$2.06 per Mcf of gas. Should prices decline in future  periods,  reserves may be
revised  downward for quantities  which may be  uneconomical to produce at lower
prices.

      The  Company's  1997  reserve  replacement  rate on a BOE basis was 1450%,
which included  reserve  replacement  rates for oil and natural gas of 1375% and
1528%, respectively. Previous reserve replacement performance rates were 314% in
1996 (398% for oil and 239% for gas) and 281% in 1995 (263% for oil and 297% for
gas). For the three and five year periods ended December 31, 1997, the three and
five year average reserve replacement rates were 769% and 685%, respectively.

      Finding  Cost.  The  Company's  acquisition  and finding cost for 1997 was
$8.23 per BOE as compared to the 1996 and 1995  acquisition and finding costs of
$3.10 and $2.87 per BOE, respectively. The increased rate in 1998 is a result of
the fair value assigned to Mesa's  long-lived,  low cost  reserves.  The average
acquisition  and finding  cost for the  three-year  period from 1995 to 1997 was
$7.04 per BOE representing a 76% increase from the 1996 three-year  average rate
of $3.99.

      Unproved Properties. Although the acquisition of the portfolio of unproved
properties from Chauvco  represents an exciting  challenge to the Company's team
of engineers,  geologists and geophysicists,  such opportunities are not without
risk.   U.S.  GAAP   requires   periodic   evaluations   of  these  costs  on  a
project-by-project   basis  in  comparison  to  their  estimated  value.   These
evaluations will be affected by results of exploration activities,  future sales
or expiration of all or a portion of such projects.  If the quantities of proved
reserves  determined by such evaluations are not sufficient to fully recover the
cost  invested  in each  project,  the  Company  may be  required  to  recognize
significant  noncash charges to the earnings of future periods.  There can be no
assurance that economic reserves will be determined to exist for such projects.

Other Events

      Asset   Dispositions.   From  time  to  time,  the  Company   disposes  of
nonstrategic assets in order to raise capital for other activities,  reduce debt
or eliminate  costs  associated  with  nonstrategic  assets.  For the year ended
December 31, 1997, the Company's asset disposition  activity primarily consisted
of the sale of certain  domestic assets,  primarily oil and gas properties,  for
proceeds  of  $114.1  million,  which  resulted  in a  pre-tax  net gain of $4.3
million,  and the sale of the Company's subsidiary with an ownership interest in
oil and gas properties in Turkey for proceeds of $1.6 million, which resulted in
the  recognition  of a pre-tax  gain of $706  thousand.  During  the year  ended
December  31,  1996,   the  Company  sold  certain   wholly-owned   Australasian
subsidiaries for proceeds of $183.2 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of $83.3
million and certain  nonstrategic  domestic assets for proceeds of $58.4 million
that resulted in the  recognition  of a pre-tax net gain of $13.8  million.  The
proceeds from the asset dispositions were initially used to reduce the Company's
outstanding bank  indebtedness and subsequently to provide funding for a portion
of the  Company's  capital  expenditures,  including  purchases  of oil  and gas
properties in the Company's  core areas.  During 1998,  the Company  anticipates
selling certain  nonstrategic  domestic oil and gas properties for approximately
$375 to $550 million.

                                       28

<PAGE>




      Conversion of  Subsidiary  Preferred  Shares to Common Stock.  On July 28,
1997,  the  Company  exercised  its right to require  each  holder of its 6-1/4%
Cumulative  Guaranteed Monthly Income  Convertible  Preferred Shares ("Preferred
Shares")  to exchange  all  Preferred  Shares for shares of common  stock of the
Company (see Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data"). On July 28, 1997, the
Company  issued 6.7 million shares of common stock in exchange for the 3,776,400
Preferred  Shares  outstanding.  As a result,  the Company  will no longer incur
interest  expense  associated  with the Preferred  Shares of  approximately  $12
million per year.

      Information  Systems for the Year 2000.  The  Company  will be required to
modify its information  systems in order to accurately  process data referencing
the year 2000.  Because of the importance of occurrence dates in the oil and gas
industry,  the  consequences of not pursuing these  modifications  could be very
significant to the Company's ability to manage and report operating  activities.
Currently,  the  Company  plans to  contract  with third  parties to perform the
software programming changes necessary to correct any existing deficiencies. The
Company currently believes the total cost to make the necessary software program
modifications  will be  approximately $3 million.  Such programming  changes are
anticipated to be completed and tested by March 1, 1999.

      Reporting Comprehensive Income. In June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" ("SFAS
130") which  establishes  standards for  reporting and display of  comprehensive
income and its components in a full set of general-purpose financial statements.
Specifically,  SFAS 130 requires that an enterprise  (i) classify items of other
comprehensive  income by their nature in a financial  statement and (ii) display
the accumulated balance of other  comprehensive  income separately from retained
earnings and additional  paid-in capital in the equity section of a statement of
financial position. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.

      Comprehensive  income  consists  of the  change in  equity  of a  business
enterprise  during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances
from  nonowner  sources.  Specifically,  this  includes  net  income  and  other
comprehensive  income,  which  is made  up of  certain  changes  in  assets  and
liabilities  that are not reported in a statement of operations but are included
in the  balances  within a  separate  component  of  equity  in a  statement  of
financial  position.  Such changes include,  but are not limited to,  unrealized
gains  for  marketable   securities  and  future  contracts,   foreign  currency
translation adjustments and minimum pension liability adjustments.

      Segment  Reporting.  In June 1997, the FASB issued  Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 131  "Disclosures  about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related  Information"  ("SFAS  131")  which  establishes  standards  for  public
business  enterprises  for reporting  information  about  operating  segments in
annual financial  statements and requires that such enterprises  report selected
information  about  operating  segments in interim  financial  reports issued to
shareholders.  This statement also establishes standards for related disclosures
about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers. SFAS 131 is
effective for financial  statements  for periods  beginning  after  December 15,
1997.

      The Company operates in the one product line - oil and gas production - in
limited geographic areas. The geographic information and information about major
customers is disclosed in the Company's annual financial statements.

                                       29

<PAGE>



Results of Operations

  Oil and Gas Production

      The  following  table  describes  the results of the Company's oil and gas
production activities during 1997, 1996 and 1995.
                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                          ------------------------------------
                                              1997         1996         1995
                                          -----------   ----------   ---------
                                             (in thousands, except average
                                                  price and cost data)
Revenues:
 Oil and gas............................  $   536,782   $  396,931   $  375,720
 Gain on disposition of oil and gas
    properties, net (a).................        3,304        7,786       16,847
                                           ----------    ---------     --------
                                              540,086      404,717      392,567
                                           ----------    ---------     --------
Costs and expenses:
 Oil and gas production.................      144,170      110,334      130,905
 Depletion..............................      204,450      102,803      145,468
 Impairment of oil and gas properties...    1,356,390          -        129,745
 Exploration and abandonments...........       37,603       12,653       16,431
 Geological and geophysical.............       39,557        9,054       11,121
                                           ----------    ---------     --------
                                            1,782,170      234,844      433,670
                                           ----------    ---------     --------
  Operating profit (loss) (excluding
   general and administrative expense
   and income taxes)....................  $(1,242,084)  $  169,873   $  (41,103)
                                           ==========    =========    =========
- ---------------

(a)  The 1997 amount does not include the gain related to the disposition of the
     Company's  subsidiary  which owned an interest in oil and gas properties in
     Turkey.  The  1996  amount  does  not  include  the  gain  related  to  the
     disposition of the Company's Australasian assets.

   Production:
     Oil (MBbls)..........................     13,618      11,275      12,902
     NGLs (MBbls).........................      4,267         -           -
     Gas (MMcf)...........................    104,868      75,851      85,295
     Total (MBOE).........................     35,363      23,916      27,118
   Average daily production:
     Oil (Bbls)...........................     37,309      30,805      35,348
     NGLs (Bbls)..........................     11,691         -           -
     Gas (Mcf)............................    287,309     207,244     233,685
   Average oil price (per Bbl)............   $  18.51    $  19.96    $  16.96
   Average NGL price (per Bbl)............   $  12.59    $    -      $    -
   Average gas price (per Mcf)............   $   2.20    $   2.27    $   1.84
   Costs:
     Lease operating expense (per BOE)....   $   3.02    $   3.43    $   3.99
     Production taxes (per BOE)...........   $    .81    $    .91    $    .62
     Workover costs (per BOE).............   $    .25    $    .27    $    .22
                                               ------     -------     -------
       Total production costs (per BOE)...   $   4.08    $   4.61    $   4.83
                                               ======     =======     =======
     Depletion (per BOE)..................   $   5.78    $   4.30    $   5.36

      Oil and Gas Revenues.  Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $536.8
million in 1997, $396.9 million in 1996 and $375.7 million in 1995, representing
a 35%  increase  from  1996 to 1997 and a 6%  increase  from  1995 to 1996.  The
increase from 1996 to 1997 is primarily attributable to increases in oil and gas
production,  offset  by  declines  in  commodity  prices.  The  majority  of the
increased  production is a direct result of the oil and gas properties  acquired
from Mesa.

      Parker  &  Parsley  historically   accounted  for  processed  natural  gas
production as wellhead  production  on a wet gas basis while Mesa  accounted for
processed natural gas production in two components:  natural gas liquids and dry
residue gas. The combined  entities own three major gas  processing  facilities,
and the  majority  of the gas  processed  by  these  facilities  is owned by the
Company and produced by Company-operated properties.  Consequently,  the Company
now produces a higher  proportion of processed gas relative to total natural gas
production and will account for natural gas production as processed  natural gas
liquids and dry residue gas. Separate product volumes will not be comparable for
periods prior to September 30, 1997.

                                       30

<PAGE>



      On a BOE basis,  production  increased by 48% for the year ended  December
31,  1997,  as compared to the same period in 1996.  The  additional  production
volumes from the Mesa properties  contributed 85% of production growth from 1996
to 1997.  The remainder of the increases are a direct result of the successes of
the Company's  exploration and  exploitation  efforts.  Such  production  growth
becomes  particularly evident in light of the fact that a portion of the average
daily oil and gas production for 1996 related to properties included in the 1996
sale of the  Company's  Australasian  subsidiaries  and the 1996 sale of certain
nonstrategic  domestic assets.  Excluding production associated with assets sold
during 1996 and the Mesa properties acquired in 1997, on a BOE basis, production
increased 14% for the year ended December 31, 1997 as compared to the year ended
1996.

      The  increase  in oil  and gas  revenues  from  1995 to 1996 is  primarily
attributable  to the higher  average  prices being received for both oil and gas
production  and  increases  in  production  due  to  the  Company's   successful
exploitation  and  exploration  activities  in  1995  and  1996,  offset  by the
decreased production resulting from the 1996 sale of the Company's  Australasian
assets and the 1995 and 1996 sales of certain domestic assets.

      The  average  oil price  received  for the year ended  December  31,  1997
decreased 7% (from $19.96 in 1996 to $18.51 in 1997),  and the average gas price
received  decreased 3% (from $2.27 in 1996 to $2.20 in 1997).  During 1997,  the
Company  received  an average of $12.59 per Bbl for NGLs.  The average oil price
received for the year ended December 31, 1996 increased 18% (from $16.96 in 1995
to $19.96 in 1996),  while the average gas price  received  increased  23% (from
$1.84 in 1995 to $2.27 in 1996).

      Hedging Activities

      The oil and gas prices  that the  Company  reports are based on the market
price  received  for the  commodities  adjusted by the results of the  Company's
hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity derivative contracts (swaps,
futures  and  options)  in order to (i) reduce the effect of the  volatility  of
price changes on the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support
the Company's annual capital  budgeting and expenditure  plans and (iii) lock in
prices to protect the economics related to certain capital projects.

      Crude Oil. All material  purchase  contracts  governing  the Company's oil
production  are tied directly or  indirectly  to NYMEX  prices.  The average oil
price per Bbl that the Company  reports  includes  the  effects of oil  quality,
gathering  and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil hedges.  The
Company's  average  realized  price  for  physical  oil sales  (excluding  hedge
results) for the years ended  December  31,  1997,  1996 and 1995 was $19.09 per
Bbl, $21.33 per Bbl and $17.02 per Bbl,  respectively.  The Company recorded net
reductions to oil revenues of $7.9 million,  $15.4 million and $825 thousand for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively,  as a result of
its oil price hedges.

      Natural Gas Liquids.  The Company  employs a policy of hedging natural gas
liquids  based  on  actual  product  prices  in order  to  mitigate  some of the
volatility  associated  with NYMEX  pricing.  Natural gas liquids are sold under
long-term  contracts  which provide price  flexibility  and allow the Company to
maximize prices between  trading hubs.  During the year ended December 31, 1997,
the Company  realized an average  natural gas liquids  price for physical  sales
(excluding  hedge  results)  of $12.61 per Bbl and  recorded a net  decrease  to
natural gas liquids revenue of $77,600.

      Natural Gas. The Company employs a policy of hedging gas production  based
on the index price upon which the gas is actually  sold in order to mitigate the
basis risk between NYMEX prices and actual index  prices.  The average gas price
per Mcf that the Company reports includes the effects of Btu content,  gathering
and transportation costs, gas processing and shrinkage and the net effect of the
gas  hedges.  The  Company's  average  realized  price  for  physical  gas sales
(excluding  hedge results) for the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995
was $2.41 per Mcf,  $2.39 per Mcf and $1.70 per Mcf,  respectively.  The Company
recorded net  reductions  to gas revenues of $21.9  million and $9.0 million for
the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, and an increase to gas
revenues of $12.1 million during 1995, as a result of its gas price hedges.

      See Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  concerning the
Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 1997 and the related prices to be
realized.

                                       31

<PAGE>



      Production  Costs.  Total  production  costs per BOE decreased in 1997 and
1996 by approximately 11% and 5%,  respectively  (from $4.83 in 1995 to $4.61 in
1996 to $4.08 in  1997).  The  primary  component  of  production  costs,  lease
operating  expense,  has also  decreased  significantly,  12% in 1997 and 14% in
1996.  These costs represent the majority of the oil and gas property  operating
expenses  over which the  Company has control and the costs on which the Company
has focused its  reduction  efforts.  As  discussed  more fully in "Natural  Gas
Processing"  below,  the  Company  has  adopted a new  method of  reporting  the
financial results of its natural gas processing facilities and is now presenting
these  results as oil and gas  production  activities.  In 1997,  the  operating
margin from the Company's gas plants (i.e., third party processing revenues less
processing  costs and  expenses)  is included in oil and gas  production  costs,
specifically  lease  operating  expense,  which  resulted in a decrease in lease
operating  expense  per BOE of $.07 for the year ended  December  31,  1997,  as
compared to 1996. The additional  reductions in lease  operating  expense during
the three  years ended  December  31, 1997 are  primarily  due to the  Company's
concentrated  efforts to evaluate and reduce all operating costs and the sale of
certain high operating cost properties during 1996.

      Depletion  Expense.  Depletion  expense per BOE  increased 34% in 1997 (to
$5.78 in 1997  from  $4.30 in 1996) and  decreased  20% in 1996  (from  $5.36 in
1995). The increase in depletion expense per BOE in 1997 is primarily associated
with the fair value allocated to Mesa's long-lived,  low production cost natural
gas reserves. The decrease in depletion expense per BOE in 1996 is primarily the
result of the following  factors:  (i) the  significant  increase in oil and gas
reserves  during 1995 and 1996  resulting  from the  Company's  exploration  and
development  drilling activities,  including revisions,  and (ii) a reduction in
the Company's net depletable basis from charges taken in 1995 in accordance with
SFAS 121 (see "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" below).

      Impairment of Oil and Gas  Properties.  In  accordance  with SFAS 121, the
Company  reviews its oil and gas properties for impairment  whenever  events and
circumstances  indicate a decline in the recoverability of the carrying value of
the  Company's  assets.  Historically,  a decline in the  recoverability  of the
carrying  value of the Company's oil and gas  properties  has been the result of
depressed  commodity prices.  The Company  recognized noncash pre-tax charges of
$1.4  billion  ($863  million  after-tax)  and  $129.7  million  ($84.3  million
after-tax)  related  to its  oil  and  gas  properties  during  1997  and  1995,
respectively.  See  Note  B  and  Note  M of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
further  explanation of the Company's policies  concerning SFAS 121 and its 1997
and 1995 charges for impairment.

      Exploration and Abandonments/Geological and Geophysical Costs. Exploration
and  abandonments/geological  and geophysical costs totaled $77.2 million, $21.7
million and $27.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively. The increase in 1997 is primarily the result of increased domestic
exploratory  drilling  and  geological  and  geophysical  activity  due  to  the
expansion of the Company's  exploration program. The decrease in 1996 is largely
the result of decreased  activity,  both in exploratory  drilling and geological
and geophysical activity, resulting from the sale in March 1996 of the Company's
Australasian  assets  (see " Asset  Dispositions"  above  and Note L of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data"), offset by increases in geological and geophysical activity
in  the  United  States  as  a  result  of  the  Company's  increased  focus  on
exploitation  and  exploration  activities.  The following  table sets forth the
components   of  the   Company's   1997,   1996   and   1995   exploration   and
abandonments/geological and geophysical costs:

                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                            --------------------------------
                                              1997        1996        1995
                                            --------    --------    --------
                                                     (in thousands)
Exploratory dry holes:
 United States...........................   $ 27,182    $  6,256    $  2,491
 Australia and other foreign.............      5,695       3,431       9,636
Geological and geophysical costs:
 United States...........................     35,737       7,042       2,302
 Foreign.................................      3,820       2,012       8,819
Leasehold abandonments and other.........      4,726       2,966       4,304
                                             -------     -------     -------

                                            $ 77,160    $ 21,707    $ 27,552
                                             =======     =======     =======

      Approximately 29% of the Company's 1998  exploration/exploitation  capital
budget will be spent on exploratory projects (compared to 28% in 1997 and 18% in
1996). The Company currently  anticipates that its 1998 exploration efforts will
be  concentrated  domestically in the Gulf Coast region and  internationally  in
Argentina, Canada and Africa.

                                       32

<PAGE>



The  Company  continues  to review  opportunities  involving  exploration  joint
ventures in domestic and international areas outside the Company's existing core
operating areas.

  Natural Gas Processing

      The Company historically reflected its ownership interests in and revenues
and expenses related to its natural gas processing  facilities as separate items
in the  consolidated  financial  statements  while Mesa  reported  revenues  and
expenses from its natural gas  processing  facilities as oil and gas  production
costs.  During the last four years,  the Company  has sold its  interests  in 12
natural gas processing  facilities  and now owns interests in seven  facilities.
The ownership  interest in the remaining  gas plant  facilities  and the related
results of operations from third party gas processed through such facilities are
not material to the Company's financial  position.  To report the results of gas
processing activities consistently within the financial statements, during 1997,
the Company reclassified the natural gas processing  facilities into oil and gas
properties  for  financial  statement  purposes  and will report all third party
revenues and expenses from its natural gas processing  facilities in oil and gas
production costs.

      Natural  gas  processing  revenues  were  $23.8  million in 1996 and $33.3
million in 1995; and natural gas processing costs were $12.5 million in 1996 and
$25.9  million in 1995.  The 1996  natural  gas  processing  revenues  and costs
decreased 29% and 52%, respectively, when compared to the 1995 amounts primarily
due to the sale of four gas  plants  during  1995 and the sale of one gas  plant
during  1996.  The  average  price per Bbl of NGLs  increased  30% in 1996 (from
$11.59 in 1995 to $15.10 in 1996),  while the  average  price per Mcf of residue
gas increased 55% in 1996 (from $1.39 in 1995 to $2.15 in 1996).

      During  January 1996, the Company  realized  proceeds of $2.1 million from
sales of gas plants and related assets which resulted in the Company recognizing
a net pre-tax gain of $639 thousand.  In addition,  in October 1995, the Company
sold its interests in the Cargray and Schafer  plants  located in Carson County,
Texas. The Company received net proceeds of $9.5 million from the disposition of
such plants which resulted in the Company recognizing a net pre-tax gain of $4.6
million.

      During  1996,  the  Company  recognized  noncash  pre-tax  charges of $1.3
million  related to  abandonments  of certain of the  Company's  gas  processing
facilities  and  the   cancellation   of  certain  gas   processing   contracts.
Additionally,  during 1995, the Company  recognized a noncash pre-tax impairment
charge of $748 thousand related to a natural gas processing facility.

  General and Administrative Expense

      General  and  administrative  expense  was $48.8  million  in 1997,  $28.4
million in 1996 and $37.4 million in 1995, representing a 72% increase from 1996
to 1997 and a 24% decrease  from 1995 to 1996.  The  increase  from 1996 to 1997
resulted  from  the  increased  size  of  the  Company  and  reorganization  and
relocation  costs caused by the merger between Parker & Parsley and Mesa and the
acquisition of Chauvco.  The decrease from 1995 to 1996 is primarily due to 1995
including  pre-tax charges of $10.6 million  associated with the amortization of
deferred compensation awarded in 1993 and organizational  changes implemented by
the Company  that were  designed to reduce  overall  general and  administrative
expenses.

  Interest Expense

      Interest  expense  was $77.6  million in 1997,  $46.2  million in 1996 and
$65.4 million in 1995. The increase from 1996 to 1997 is primarily the result of
an  increase  in the  weighted  average  outstanding  balance  of the  Company's
indebtedness  during 1997 as compared to 1996 due to the additional debt assumed
from Mesa. The decrease from 1995 to 1996 is due to a decrease of $226.3 million
in the weighted average  outstanding  balance of the Company's  indebtedness for
the year ended  December  31, 1996 as compared  to the year ended  December  31,
1995,  resulting primarily from the application of proceeds from the sale of the
Company's  Australasian  assets and the sales of certain  domestic assets during
1995 and 1996,  and a decrease  in the  weighted  average  interest  rate on the
Company's  indebtedness  from 8.02% in 1995 to 7.83% in 1996.  In addition,  the
1997, 1996 and 1995 amounts  include $6 million,  $12 million and $12 million of
interest,  respectively,  associated  with the preferred  stock of the Company's
subsidiary, Parker & Parsley Capital LLC, which was converted to common stock of
the  Company  in July  1997  (see  Note I of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data").
The 1997,

                                       33

<PAGE>



1996 and 1995 amounts also  include $1.2  million,  $1.3 million and $2 million,
respectively, of amortization of capitalized loan fees.

      During each of the years 1997,  1996 and 1995,  the Company was a party to
various  interest  rate swap  agreements.  As a result,  the Company  recorded a
reduction in interest  expense of $847  thousand and $787 thousand for the years
ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively,  and additional interest expense
of $532 thousand for the year ended  December 31, 1995. For a description of the
Company's  interest  rate  swap  agreements,  see  Note  J of the  Notes  to the
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data".

Other Expense

      During 1996, Mesa entered into BTU swap  agreements  covering 13,036 MMBTU
per day from January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2004. Under the terms of these
agreements,  the  Company  will  receive a premium of $.52 per MMBTU over market
natural gas prices from  January 1, 1997 through  December  31, 1998.  Following
this  two-year  period,  the Company will receive 10% of the NYMEX oil price for
the volumes covered for a six-year period  beginning  January 1, 1999 and ending
December 31, 2004. As these derivative  contracts do not qualify as hedges,  the
Company recorded a $5.2 million noncash pre-tax mark-to-market adjustment to the
carrying value of the BTU swap agreements in 1997. These contracts will continue
to be  marked-to-market  at the  end  of  each  reporting  period  during  their
respective  lives and the  effects on the  Company's  results of  operations  in
future periods could be significant.

  Income Taxes

      The Company's  income tax benefit of $500.3  million and $45.9 million for
1997 and 1995,  respectively  (both of which exclude the tax effects  related to
extraordinary  items),  and its income tax  provision of $60.1  million for 1996
reflect  the  net  provision  or  benefit,   resulting  from  the  separate  tax
calculation  prepared for each tax  jurisdiction in which the Company is subject
to income taxes.  For 1997,  1996 and 1995 the Company had  effective  total tax
rates of approximately  36%, 30% and 31%,  respectively.  See Note N of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for further discussion of the Company's income tax provision
and benefits.

  Extraordinary Items

      On December  18,  1997,  the Company  completed a cash tender  offer for a
significant portion of the 11-5/8% senior  subordinated  discount notes due 2006
and the  10-5/8%  senior  subordinated  notes  due 2006  (the  "10-5/8%  Notes")
(collectively,  the  "Subordinated  Notes")  assumed  from Mesa for a redemption
price of $829.90  and  $1,171.40,  respectively,  per $1,000  tendered  plus any
interest accrued on the 10 5/8% Notes (the "Tender  Offer").  As a result of the
Tender  Offer,   the  Company   recognized  an   extraordinary   loss  on  early
extinguishment  of debt of $11.9  million  (net of a related tax benefit of $6.4
million)  during the fourth quarter of 1997.  The Company  financed the purchase
price of the Subordinated  Notes tendered in the offer with borrowings under its
bank credit facility.

      The accompanying  Consolidated  Statement of Operations for the year ended
December 31, 1997 also  includes a $1.5 million (net of a related tax benefit of
$800 thousand) noncash charge for an extraordinary loss on early  extinguishment
of  debt  resulting  from  the  mergers.  This  extraordinary  loss  relates  to
capitalized issuance fees associated with Parker & Parsley's previously existing
bank credit facility which was replaced by the new credit facility agreement for
the Company.

      In October  1995,  the  Company  transferred  cash and certain oil and gas
properties   with  an  aggregate   estimated  value  of  $1.1  million  in  full
satisfaction of a non-recourse  note secured by the  properties,  the balance of
which was approximately  $7.7 million.  As a result,  the Company  recognized an
extraordinary  gain on the early  extinguishment of debt of $4.3 million (net of
related tax expense of $2.3 million).

  Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

      Capital  Commitments.  The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are  for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of  principal  and  interest on  outstanding  indebtedness  and working  capital
obligations.

                                       34

<PAGE>



      The Company's cash  expenditures  during 1997, 1996 and 1995 for additions
to oil and gas properties (including individual property  acquisitions,  but not
including  company  acquisitions)  totaled  $428.6  million,  $219.4 million and
$215.7  million,  respectively.  The 1997  amount  includes  $292.6  million for
development  and  exploratory  drilling and, as in 1996 and 1995,  the Company's
drilling activities were focused primarily in the Spraberry field of the Permian
Basin.  Significant drilling  expenditures in 1997 included $99.0 million in the
unitized  portion of the Spraberry field of the Permian Basin  (including  $47.6
million in the Driver unit,  $12.7 million in the Preston unit, $12.6 million in
the Shackelford unit, $12.2 million in the North Pembrook unit and $10.5 million
in the Merchant unit),  $14.9 million in other portions of the Spraberry  field,
$46.5 million in other areas of the Permian Basin,  $91.3 million in the onshore
and offshore Gulf Coast region,  $29.9  million in the  MidContinent  region and
$11.0 million in Argentina and Guatemala.

      The  Company's  1998  capital  expenditure  budget  has  been  set at $500
million,  reflecting  planned  expenditures  of $301  million  for  exploitation
activities,  $125 million for exploration activities and $74 million for oil and
gas property  acquisitions  in the Company's core areas.  The Company budgets it
capital  expenditures  based on  projected  internally-generated  cash flows and
routinely  adjusts  the  level  of  its  capital  expenditures  in  response  to
anticipated changes in cash flows.

      Funding  for the  Company's  working  capital  obligations  is provided by
internally-generated  cash flow.  Funding for the  repayment  of  principal  and
interest on outstanding debt and the Company's capital  expenditure  program may
be provided by any combination of internally-generated  cash flow, proceeds from
the  disposition  of  nonstrategic  assets or alternative  financing  sources as
discussed in "Capital Resources" below.

      Capital  Resources.  The Company's  primary capital resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  nonstrategic  assets.  The Company  expects  that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 1998.

      Operating Activities

      Net cash provided by operating  activities  during 1997 of $228.2  million
was  comparable  to that of 1996 of $230.1  million.  The  additional  cash flow
generated  by  increased   production  was  offset  by  increased   general  and
administrative  expenses  and  interest  expenses  and the  payment  of  certain
liabilities assumed from Mesa,  including severance payments made to former Mesa
employees.  During 1996, net cash provided by operating activities increased 47%
(from $156.6  million in 1995 to $230.1 million in 1996).  This increase  during
1996 is  primarily  attributable  to stronger oil and gas prices  combined  with
declining  production  costs due to improvements  in the Company's  overall cost
structure in 1995 and 1996.

      Financing Activities

      As  described  more  fully in Note E of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", on
August 7, 1997, the Company entered into two credit  facility  agreements with a
syndicate of banks which provide for a total  domestic  bank credit  facility of
$1.4 billion.  The Company had an outstanding balance under its bank facility at
December 31, 1997 of $1.4 billion  (including  outstanding,  undrawn  letters of
credit  of  $30.6  million),  leaving  approximately  $161  thousand  of  unused
borrowing base immediately available. At December 31, 1997, the Company also had
$234.7  million  outstanding  under  its  Canadian  credit  facility  leaving  a
borrowing  capacity of $55.3 million.  At December 31, 1997, the Company had two
other outstanding significant debt issuances. Such debt issuances consist of (i)
$150 million aggregate  principal amount of 8-7/8% senior notes issued by Parker
& Parsley in 1995 and due in 2005  (carrying  value of $150.0  million) and (ii)
$150 million aggregate  principal amount of 8-1/4% senior notes issued by Parker
&  Parsley  in 1995 and due in 2007  (carrying  value of  $149.3  million).  The
weighted  average  interest  rate for the year ended  December  31,  1997 on the
Company's  indebtedness  was  7.04%  as  compared  to 7.83%  for the year  ended
December  31, 1996 and 8.02% for the year ended  December  31, 1995 (taking into
account the effect of interest rate swaps).

      Senior note  issuance.  During  January  1998,  the Company  completed the
issuance of the  following  two series of senior notes for total net proceeds of
$593  million.  The proceeds  were used  primarily to repay the  Company's  bank
indebtedness.

                                       35

<PAGE>



      6.5% senior notes due 2008. $350 million  aggregate  principal amount 6.5%
      senior notes dated January 13, 1998, due January 15, 2008. Interest on the
      6.5% senior  notes is payable  semi-annually  on January 15 and July 15 of
      each year, commencing July 15, 1998.

      7.2% senior notes due 2028. $250 million  aggregate  principal amount 7.2%
      senior notes dated  January 13, 1998,  due July 15, 2028.  Interest on the
      7.2% senior  notes is payable  semi-annually  on January 15 and July 15 of
      each year, commencing July 15, 1998.

      Both senior  note  issuances  are  governed  by an  Indenture  between the
Company  and The Bank of New York dated  January  13,  1998.  Both  senior  note
issuances are general  unsecured  obligations of the Company  ranking equally in
right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company and
are  senior  in  right  of  payment  to all  existing  and  future  subordinated
indebtedness of the Company. In addition,  the Company is a holding company that
conducts  all its  operations  through  subsidiaries,  and the senior  notes are
structurally  subordinated  to all obligations of its  subsidiaries.  The senior
notes were fully and  unconditionally  guaranteed by Pioneer  Natural  Resources
USA, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

      As  the  Company  continues  to  pursue  its  strategy,   it  may  utilize
alternative  financing  sources,  including  the issuance for cash of fixed rate
long-term  public debt,  convertible  securities or preferred stock. The Company
may also issue securities in exchange for oil and gas properties, stock or other
interests  in  other  oil  and  gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional
securities  may be of a class  preferred  to common  stock with  respect to such
matters as dividends and  liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and
preferences as determined by the Company's Board of Directors.

      Sales of Nonstrategic  Assets.  During 1997, 1996 and 1995,  proceeds from
the sale of domestic  nonstrategic assets totaled $115.7 million,  $58.4 million
and $175.1  million,  respectively.  In addition,  during 1996, the Company sold
certain subsidiaries resulting in cash proceeds of $183.2 million (see Note L of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data").  The  proceeds  from  these  sales  were
primarily utilized to reduce the Company's outstanding bank indebtedness and for
general working capital purposes.

      In February  1998,  the Company  announced its intentions to sell domestic
nonstrategic  properties for proceeds  ranging from $375 to $550 million.  These
properties  represent  an  estimated  10% to 12% of the  Company's  reserves  at
December 31, 1997. The Company plans to complete this  divestiture in the latter
part of 1998. The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic
properties from time to time to increase capital  resources  available for other
activities and to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and improved
profitability.

      The  consummation  of the  Company's  1998  divestiture  plans is entirely
dependent  on  finding  one or  more  willing  buyers  who  have  the  financial
wherewithal  to  complete  such a  purchase.  Until  such a buyer is found,  the
Company may  reevaluate  its portfolio of properties  and at any time may adjust
its plans concerning  divestitures.  As a result, there can be no assurance that
the divestiture of any or all of these  properties will be completed or that the
estimated proceeds will be realized.

      Liquidity. At December 31, 1997, the Company had $71.7 million of cash and
cash  equivalents  on hand,  compared to $18.7 million at December 31, 1996. The
Company's  ratio of current assets to current  liabilities  was 1.18 at December
31, 1997 and 1.29 at December 31, 1996.

                                       36

<PAGE>



ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
 Independent Auditors' Report.............................................  38
 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997
   and 1996...............................................................  39
 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31,
   1997, 1996 and 1995....................................................  40
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
   Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.................................  41
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,
   1997, 1996 and 1995....................................................  42
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...............................  43
 Unaudited Supplementary Information......................................  69



                                       37

<PAGE>






                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

      We have audited the consolidated  financial  statements of Pioneer Natural
Resources  Company and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying  index.  These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements referred to above
present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
the  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in
the  three-year  period ended  December 31, 1997, in conformity  with  generally
accepted accounting principles.

      As discussed in Notes B and M to the  consolidated  financial  statements,
the Company  changed its method of accounting  for the  impairment of long-lived
assets  and for  long-lived  assets  to be  disposed  of in 1995  to  adopt  the
provisions of the Financial  Accounting Standards Board's Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 121,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of".



                                             KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
Midland, Texas
February 13, 1998



                                       38

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)

                                     ASSETS
                                                             December 31,
                                                       -----------------------
                                                          1997         1996
                                                       ----------   ----------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..........................  $   71,713   $   18,711
  Restricted cash....................................       1,695        1,749
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net.......................................      75,432       34,075
    Affiliates.......................................         -            434
    Oil and gas sales................................     116,500       48,459
  Inventories........................................      13,576        3,644
  Deferred income taxes..............................      16,900        7,400
  Other current assets...............................      12,372        2,567
                                                        ---------    ---------
      Total current assets...........................     308,188      117,039
                                                        ---------    ---------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful
   efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties................................   3,575,971    1,419,051
    Unproved properties..............................     545,074        7,331
  Natural gas processing facilities..................         -         59,276
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization.....................................    (605,203)    (445,238)
                                                        ---------    ---------
                                                        3,515,842    1,040,420
Other property and equipment, net....................      44,017       27,779
Other assets, net....................................      78,543       14,627
                                                        ---------    ---------
                                                       $3,946,590   $1,199,865
                                                        =========    =========
                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt...............  $    5,791   $    5,381
  Undistributed unit purchases.......................       1,695        1,749
  Accounts payable:
    Trade ...........................................     176,697       56,713
    Affiliates.......................................       9,994        7,528
  Domestic and foreign income taxes..................         -          1,743
  Other current liabilities..........................      67,375       17,856
                                                        ---------    ---------
      Total current liabilities......................     261,552       90,970
                                                        ---------    ---------
Long-term debt, less current maturities..............   1,943,718      320,908
Other noncurrent liabilities.........................     180,275        8,071
Deferred income taxes................................      12,200       60,800
Preferred stock of subsidiary........................         -        188,820
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 100,000,000
    shares authorized; none issued and outstanding...         -            -
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares
    authorized; 101,037,562 and 36,899,618 shares
    issued at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively.....................................       1,010          369
  Additional paid-in capital.........................   2,359,992      462,873
  Treasury stock, at cost; 591 and 1,833,383 shares
    at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively......         (21)     (31,528)
  Unearned compensation..............................     (16,196)      (1,625)
  Retained earnings (deficit)........................    (795,940)     100,207
                                                        ---------    ---------
      Total stockholders' equity.....................   1,548,845      530,296
Commitments and contingencies (Note H)
                                                        ---------    ---------
                                                       $3,946,590   $1,199,865
                                                        =========    =========
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       39

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

                                                    Year ended December 31,
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                  1997       1996       1995
                                              -----------  ---------  ---------
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...............................  $   536,782  $ 396,931  $ 375,720
  Natural gas processing....................          -       23,814     33,258
  Gas marketing.............................          -          -       76,784
  Interest and other........................        4,278     17,458     11,364
  Gain on disposition of assets, net........        4,969     97,140     16,620
                                               ----------   --------   --------
                                                  546,029    535,343    513,746
                                               ----------   --------   --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................      144,170    110,334    130,905
  Natural gas processing....................          -       12,528     25,865
  Gas marketing.............................          -          -       75,664
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..      212,435    112,134    159,058
  Impairment of oil and gas properties and
    natural gas processing facilities.......    1,356,390        -      130,494
  Exploration and abandonments..............       77,160     23,030     27,552
  General and administrative................       48,763     28,363     37,409
  Interest..................................       77,550     46,155     65,449
  Other.....................................        7,124      2,451     11,357
                                               ----------   --------   --------
                                                1,923,592    334,995    663,753
                                               ----------   --------   --------
Income (loss) before income taxes and
  extraordinary item........................   (1,377,563)   200,348   (150,007)
Income tax benefit (provision)..............      500,300    (60,100)    45,900
                                               ----------   --------   --------
Income (loss) before extraordinary item......    (877,263)   140,248   (104,107)
Extraordinary item - gain (loss) on early
   extinguishment of debt, net of tax........     (13,408)       -        4,338
                                               ----------   --------   --------
Net income (loss)............................ $  (890,671) $ 140,248  $ (99,769)
                                               ==========   ========   ========
Income (loss) per share:
  Basic:
    Income (loss) before extraordinary item.  $    (16.88) $    3.95  $   (2.96)
    Extraordinary item......................         (.26)       -          .12
                                               ----------   --------   --------
    Net income (loss).......................  $    (17.14) $    3.95  $   (2.84)
                                               ==========   ========   ========
  Diluted:
    Income (loss) before extraordinary item.  $    (16.88) $    3.47  $   (2.96)
    Extraordinary item......................         (.26)       -          .12
                                               ----------   --------   --------
    Net income (loss).......................  $    (17.14) $    3.47  $   (2.84)
                                               ==========   ========   ========
Dividends declared per share................. $       .10  $     .10  $     .10
                                               ==========   ========   ========
Weighted average shares outstanding..........      51,973     35,475     35,090
                                              ===========  =========  =========

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       40

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Additional               Unearned    Retained   Cumulative       Total
                                  Common    Paid-in     Treasury     Compen-    Earnings   Translation   Stockholders'
                                  Stock     Capital       Stock      sation    (Deficit)   Adjustment       Equity
                                  ------   ----------   ---------   --------   ---------   -----------   ------------
<S>                               <C>      <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>
Balance at January 1, 1995.....   $  359   $  445,321   $ (6,788)   $ (5,726)  $  66,779     $ 9,639      $  509,584
Common stock issued............        2        3,963         -           -           -           -            3,965
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options...........        2        2,065        223        (365)         -           -            1,925
Restricted shares awarded......        1          769         -       (1,387)         -           -             (617)
Tax benefits related to
  stock options................       -           600         -           -           -           -              600
Purchase of treasury stock.....       -            -        (279)         -           -           -             (279)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation.................       -            -          -        5,423          -           -            5,423
Net loss.......................       -            -          -           -      (99,769)         -          (99,769)
Dividends ($.10 per share).....       -            -          -           -       (3,501)         -           (3,501)
Currency translation
  adjustment...................       -            -          -           -           -       (6,336)         (6,336)
                                   -----    ---------    -------     -------    --------      ------       ---------

Balance at December 31, 1995...      364      452,718     (6,844)     (2,055)    (36,491)      3,303         410,995
                                   -----    ---------    -------     -------    --------      ------       ---------

Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options...........        5        6,899         -           -           -           -            6,904
Restricted shares awarded......       -         1,091         -       (1,199)         -           -             (108)
Restricted shares forfeited....       -           (35)       (13)         48          -           -               -
Tax benefits related to
  stock options................       -         2,200         -           -           -           -            2,200
Purchase of treasury stock.....       -            -     (24,671)         -           -           -          (24,671)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation.................       -            -          -        1,581          -           -            1,581
Net income.....................       -            -          -           -      140,248          -          140,248
Dividends ($.10 per share).....       -            -          -           -       (3,550)         -           (3,550)
Currency translation
  adjustment...................       -            -          -           -           -       (3,303)         (3,303)
                                   -----    ---------    -------     -------    --------      ------       ---------

Balance at December 31, 1996...      369      462,873    (31,528)     (1,625)    100,207          -          530,296
                                   -----    ---------    -------     -------    --------      ------       ---------

Common stock issued:
  Acquisition of MESA, Inc.....      318      982,248         -           -           -           -          982,566
  Acquisition of Chauvco
    Resources, Ltd.............      249      688,081         -           -           -           -          688,330
  Acquisition of properties....       16       44,857         -           -           -           -           44,873
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options...........        5       11,591         -           -           -           -           11,596
Cancellation of treasury shares      (19)     (34,441)    34,460          -           -           -               -
Exchange of Preferred Shares
  for common shares............       67      182,909         -           -           -           -          182,976
Restricted shares awarded......        5       18,974         -      (18,079)         -           -              900
Tax benefits related to
  stock options................       -         2,900         -           -           -           -            2,900
Purchase of treasury stock.....       -            -      (2,953)         -           -           -           (2,953)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation.................       -            -          -        3,508          -           -            3,508
Net loss.......................       -            -          -           -     (890,671)         -         (890,671)
Dividends ($.10 per share).....       -            -          -           -       (5,476)         -           (5,476)
                                   -----    ---------    -------     -------    --------      ------       ---------

Balance at December 31, 1997...   $1,010   $2,359,992   $    (21)   $(16,196)  $(795,940)    $    -       $1,548,845
                                   =====    =========    =======     =======    ========      ======       =========
</TABLE>
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       41

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  Year ended December 31,
                                                            ----------------------------------
                                                               1997        1996        1995
                                                            ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                         <C>          <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income (loss)......................................  $ (890,671)  $ 140,248   $ (99,769)
   Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net
     cash provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization...........     212,435     112,134     159,058
       Impairment of oil and gas properties and natural
          gas processing facilities.......................   1,356,390         -       130,494
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes..........      63,288      17,262      23,500
       Deferred income taxes..............................    (501,300)     57,400     (44,900)
       Gain on disposition of assets, net.................      (4,969)    (97,140)    (16,620)
       (Gain) loss on early extinguishment of debt,
          net of tax......................................      13,408         -        (4,338)
       Other noncash items................................      18,886      (1,360)     16,770
   Change in operating assets and liabilities,  net of 
     effects from acquisitions and dispositions:
       Accounts receivable................................     (39,774)     (2,674)      4,870
       Inventory..........................................      (5,941)      1,842         682
       Other current assets...............................      (1,913)        (32)      1,146
       Accounts payable...................................      27,138        (656)    (15,712)
       Accrued income taxes and other current liabilities.     (18,768)      3,035       2,758
     Other................................................         -            47      (1,383)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
          Net cash provided by operating activities.......     228,209     230,106     156,556
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
   Payment for acquisitions, net of cash acquired.........     (15,490)        -           -
   Proceeds from disposition of wholly-owned
     subsidiaries, net of cash disposed...................         -       183,181         -
   Proceeds from disposition of assets....................     115,735      58,370     175,085
   Additions to oil and gas properties....................    (428,640)   (219,394)   (215,731)
   Other property additions, net..........................     (12,783)     (8,428)    (11,954)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
          Net cash provided by (used in) investing
             activities...................................    (341,178)     13,729     (52,600)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
   Borrowings under long-term debt........................     821,148         782     334,458
   Principal payments on long-term debt...................    (648,208)   (222,157)   (434,681)
   Payments of other noncurrent liabilities...............      (7,740)     (2,534)     (1,588)
   Deferred loan fees/issuance costs......................      (2,396)        (20)     (4,121)
   Dividends..............................................      (5,476)     (3,550)     (3,501)
   Purchase of treasury stock.............................      (2,953)    (24,671)       (279)
   Exercise of long-term incentive plan stock options.....      11,596       6,904       1,925
   Other  ................................................         -          (108)       (137)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
          Net cash provided by (used in) financing
             activities...................................     165,971    (245,354)   (107,924)
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
   equivalents............................................          -          290        (299)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents .....      53,002      (1,519)     (3,968)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year..............      18,711      19,940      24,207
                                                             ---------    --------    --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year....................  $   71,713   $  18,711   $  19,940
                                                             =========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       42

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

      Pioneer  Natural  Resources   Company  (the  "Company"),   is  a  Delaware
Corporation  whose  common  stock is listed  and  traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock  Exchange.  The Company was formed as a result of
the merger between Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company ("Parker & Parsley") and
MESA Inc. ("Mesa").  Both Parker & Parsley and Mesa were oil and gas exploration
and  production  concerns  with  ownership  interest  in oil and gas  properties
located  principally in the MidContinent,  Southwestern and onshore and offshore
Gulf  Coast  regions  of the  United  States,  and  with  limited  international
interests.

      In accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles  Board No. 16,
"Business Combinations", the merger has been accounted for as a purchase of Mesa
by Parker & Parsley.  As a result, the historical  financial  statements for the
Company are those of Parker & Parsley,  and the Company's  financial  statements
present the  addition of Mesa's  assets and  liabilities  as an  acquisition  by
Parker & Parsley in August 1997.  Specifically,  the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statements of Operations and  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows include the
financial results of Mesa beginning in August 1997.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      Principles of consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include
the  accounts  of the Company and its  majority-owned  subsidiaries  since their
acquisition  or formation and the Company's  interest in the  affiliated oil and
gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of its
wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Investments in less-than-majority-owned subsidiaries
where the Company has the ability to  exercise  significant  influence  over the
investee's  operations are accounted for by the equity method;  otherwise,  they
are   accounted   for  at  cost.   The  Company   proportionately   consolidates
less-than-100%-owned  oil and  gas  partnerships  in  accordance  with  industry
practice.  The  Company  owns  less  than a 20%  interest  in the  oil  and  gas
partnerships  that it  proportionally  consolidates.  All material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

      Use of estimates in the preparation of financial  statements.  Preparation
of  the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

      Cash  equivalents.  For purposes of the  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash
Flows,  cash and cash equivalents  include cash on hand and depository  accounts
held by banks.

      Restricted  cash at December 31, 1997 and 1996  represents  the  Company's
remaining obligation to redeem for cash the unconverted limited partner units in
the Prudential-Bache Energy limited partnerships acquired in 1993.

      Inventories.  Inventories  consist of lease  and well equipment  which are
carried at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.

      Oil and gas properties. The Company utilizes the successful efforts method
of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties as  promulgated  by Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing  Companies".  Under this method, all costs associated with
productive  wells and  nonproductive  development  wells are  capitalized  while
nonproductive  exploration costs are expensed.  The Company capitalizes interest
on  expenditures  for  significant  development  projects  until  such  time  as
significant operations commence.

      Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties  are depleted using the
unit-of-production  method based on proved reserves expressed as BOE as prepared
by  the  Company's  engineers,  except  for  Canada,   which  were  prepared  by

                                       43

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


independent petroleum engineers.  Costs of significant  nonproducing properties,
wells in the process of being drilled and development projects are excluded from
depletion  until  such time as the  related  project  is  developed  and  proved
reserves are established or impairment is determined.

      Capitalized  costs of individual  properties sold or abandoned are charged
to accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization.  Proceeds from sales of
individual  properties  are  credited  to  property  costs.  No  gain or loss is
recognized until the entire amortization base is sold.

      If significant, the Company accrues the estimated future costs to plug and
abandon  wells under the  units-of-production  method.  The  charge,  if any, is
reflected  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated   Statements  of  Operations  as
abandonment  expense  while  the  liability  is  reflected  in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets as other  liabilities.  Plugging  and  abandonment
liabilities  assumed in a business  combination  accounted for as a purchase are
recorded  at fair  value.  At  December  31,  1997 and 1996,  the  Company has a
plugging and abandonment liability of $35.9 million and $29,675, respectively.

      Unproved oil and gas  properties  that are  individually  significant  are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a project-by-project  basis. The estimated value is affected by results
of  exploration  activities,  future sales or  expiration of all or a portion of
such projects.  If the quantity of proved reserves determined by such evaluation
is not  sufficient  to fully  recover  the cost  invested in each  project,  the
Company  will  recognize  a loss  at the  time of  impairment  by  providing  an
impairment  allowance.  The  remaining  unproved  oil  and  gas  properties  are
aggregated  and  an  overall  impairment  allowance  is  provided  based  on the
Company's historical experience.

      Impairment of long-lived assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 121,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of Long-Lived
Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"),  the Company
reviews  its  long-lived  assets  to be held  and  used,  including  oil and gas
properties  accounted for under the  successful  efforts  method of  accounting,
whenever  events or  circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  value of those
assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is indicated if the sum of the
expected  future cash flows is less than the carrying  amount of the assets.  In
this  circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the amount by
which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.

      Natural gas processing facilities.  Through December 31, 1996, the Company
depreciated  its gas  processing,  gathering  and  transmission  facilities  and
equipment  on a  straight-line  basis  over the  estimated  useful  lives of the
assets,  which  ranged from 14 to 21 years.  Capitalized  costs  relating to gas
contracts,  representing the right to extract liquids and gas, were amortized on
a plant-by-plant basis using the unit-of-production method over the lives of gas
reserves  expected  to be  processed  through the  facility,  as prepared by the
Company's engineers.  Upon disposition of a natural gas processing facility, the
cost and related  accumulated  depreciation and amortization was eliminated from
the accounts and any gain or loss was included in operations.

      In 1997,  the Company  began  accounting  for its  natural gas  processing
facilities  activities  as part of its oil  and  gas  properties  for  financial
reporting  purposes.   During  1997,  all  third  party  revenues  and  expenses
attributable  to the  Company's  natural  gas  processing  facilities  have been
reported as oil and gas production  costs, and the capitalized  costs of natural
gas processing facilities are included in proved oil and gas properties.

      Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are  recorded at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

      Income taxes. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, "Accounting
for Income  Taxes" ("SFAS  109").  Under the asset and liability  method of SFAS
109,  deferred  tax assets and  liabilities  are  recognized  for the future tax
consequences   attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts of  existing assets  and liabilities  and their respective tax

                                       44

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected  to apply to  taxable  income  in the  years in which  those  temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  Under SFAS 109, the effect
on deferred tax assets and  liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

      The Company and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal
income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries  that are  consolidated  for financial
reporting  purposes  are not  eligible to be included in the  consolidated  U.S.
federal  income tax return and  separate  provisions  for income taxes have been
determined for these entities or groups of entities.

      Income  (loss) per share.  In  February  1997,  the  Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 128,
"Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128") which  simplifies  the existing  standards for
computing  earnings per share ("EPS") and makes them comparable to international
standards.  In accordance  with the provisions of SFAS 128, the Company  adopted
SFAS 128 in its year ended December 31, 1997 financial  statements and all prior
period EPS information  (including  interim EPS) have been restated.  Under SFAS
128,  primary EPS is replaced by "basic"  EPS,  which  excludes  dilution and is
computed by dividing  income  available to common  stockholders  by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding for the period. "Diluted" EPS, which
is computed similarly to fully-diluted EPS, reflects the potential dilution that
could  occur  if  securities  or other  contracts  to issue  common  stock  were
exercised or  converted  into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common
stock that then shared in the  earnings of the  entity.  For 1997 and 1995,  the
computation  of  diluted  net loss per share was  antidilutive;  therefore,  the
amounts  reported  for basic and diluted  net loss per share were the same.  The
computation of diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 1996
assumes conversion of the Company's 6-1/4% Cumulative  Guaranteed Monthly Income
Convertible  Preferred Shares ("Preferred  Shares") which increased the weighted
average number of shares outstanding to 42.6 million.

      Environmental.  The Company is subject to extensive federal,  state, local
and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws, which are constantly
changing,  regulate  the  discharge of materials  into the  environment  and may
require  the  Company to remove or  mitigate  the  environmental  effects of the
disposal  or release of  petroleum  or  chemical  substances  at various  sites.
Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future
economic benefit.  Expenditures  that relate to an existing  condition caused by
past  operations  and  that  have no  future  economic  benefits  are  expensed.
Liabilities  for   expenditures  of  a  noncapital   nature  are  recorded  when
environmental  assessment  and/or  remediation  is probable and the costs can be
reasonably  estimated.  Such liabilities are generally  undiscounted  unless the
timing of cash payments for the  liability  are fixed or reliably  determinable.
The Company  believes that the costs for compliance  with current  environmental
laws and  regulations  have not had and will not have a  material  effect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

      Revenue   recognition.   The  Company  uses  the  entitlements  method  of
accounting  for crude oil and natural gas revenues.  Sales proceeds in excess of
the Company's  entitlement  are included in other  liabilities and the Company's
share of sales taken by others is included in other  assets in the  accompanying
Consolidated   Balance  Sheets.  As  of  December  31,  1997,  such  assets  and
liabilities total $49.2 million and $20.2 million, respectively. The Company did
not have a  material  amount  recorded  in  other  assets  or other  liabilities
associated with gas balancing during 1996.

      Stock-based  compensation.  The Company accounts for employee  stock-based
compensation   using  the  intrinsic  value  method   prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB 25"). Accordingly,  the Company has only adopted the disclosure provisions
of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting   Standards  No.123,   "Accounting  for
Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). See Note G for the pro forma disclosures
of compensation expense determined under the fair-value provisions of SFAS 123.

      Hedging.  The  financial  instruments  that the  Company  accounts  for as
hedging  contracts must meet the following  criteria:  the  underlying  asset or
liability  must expose the  Company to price or  interest  rate risk that is not
offset in another  asset or  liability,  the hedging  contract  must reduce that
price or interest rate risk, and the instrument must be designated as a hedge at
the  inception of the  contract and  throughout  the hedge  period.  In order to

                                       45

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


qualify as a hedge, there must be clear correlation  between changes in the fair
value of the financial  instrument and the fair value of the underlying asset or
liability such that changes in the market value of the financial instrument will
be offset by the effect of price or interest rate changes on the exposed  items.
See Note J for a description  of the specific types of hedging  transactions  in
which the Company participates.

      Foreign  currency  translation.   The  financial  statements  of  non-U.S.
entities are translated to U.S.  dollars as follows:  all assets and liabilities
at year-end  exchange rates;  revenues,  costs and expenses at average  exchange
rates. Gains and losses from translating non-U.S. balances are recorded directly
in  stockholders'  equity.  Foreign  currency  transaction  gains and losses are
included in net income (loss).

      A  summary  of the  exchange  rates  used  in  the  preparation  of  these
consolidated financial statements appear below:
                                                              December 31,
                                                       ------------------------
                                                        1997     1996     1995
                                                       ------   ------   ------
   U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance sheet    .6997      N/A      N/A
   U.S. Dollar from Australian Dollar - Statements
     of operations                                       N/A    .7562     .7431

       Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications  have been made to the 1996
and 1995 amounts to conform to the 1997 presentation.

NOTE C.     Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

      The  following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1997 and 1996:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1997                   1996
                                                 -----------------------   -------------------
                                                  Carrying      Fair       Carrying     Fair
                                                   Amount       Value       Amount      Value
                                                 ----------   ----------   --------   --------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>
Financial assets:
  Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash     $   73,408   $   73,408   $ 20,460   $ 20,460

Financial liabilities:
  Long-term debt:
     Practicable to estimate fair value:
       Lines of credit and term note              1,608,980    1,608,980      9,000      9,000
       8-7/8% senior notes due 2005                 150,000      170,025    150,000    165,945
       8-1/4% senior notes due 2007                 149,345      166,950    149,277    160,965
     Not practicable to estimate fair value:
       Other long-term debt                          41,184           -      18,012         -

  Derivative financial instruments, including
     off-balance sheet instruments (see
     Note J):
       Interest rate swaps                            2,100        2,704         -       1,782
       Foreign currency agreements                   (7,438)      (7,438)        -          -
       Commodity price hedges                          (689)      12,061         -     (35,560)
       BTU swap agreements                           (6,893)      (6,893)        -          -
</TABLE>

      Cash and cash equivalents,  restricted cash,  accounts  receivable,  other
current assets,  accounts  payable and other current  liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

      Long-term  debt. The carrying amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's  line of credit (see Note E for  definition  and  description of each)
approximates fair value because these instruments bear interest at rates tied to
current market rates.  The fair values of each of the senior note issuances were
based on quoted market prices for each of these issues.

                                       46

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      It was not  practicable  to  estimate  the fair  value of  certain  of the
long-term  debt  obligations  because quoted market prices are not available and
the  Company  does not have a current  borrowing  rate which  could be used as a
comparable rate for the stated maturities of the obligations.

      Interest rate swap  agreements.  At December 31, 1997, the Company had the
following interest rate agreements outstanding: five interest rate fixed-rate to
floating-rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $150 million,
one  floating-rate  to fixed-rate  swap agreement with a notional amount of $250
million, one cross-currency interest swap with a notional amount of $60 million,
and one  interest  rate cap  agreement  denominated  in Canadian  dollars with a
notional amount of C$80 million.  At December 31, 1996, the Company had the five
fixed-rate to floating-rate swap agreements  mentioned above outstanding with an
aggregate  notional  amount of $150 million.  These are more fully  described in
Note J. The fair values of each of the open interest rate swap  agreements  were
obtained  from  quotes  by  the  respective  counterparties  and  represent  the
estimated net amount the Company would  receive or pay upon  termination  of the
agreements  as of  December  31 of each of the  respective  years,  taking  into
consideration interest rates at that time.

      Foreign  currency  agreements.  At December 31, 1997,  the Company had two
foreign exchange swap agreements with an aggregate  remaining notional amount of
$216 million. These are more fully described in Note J. The fair values of these
agreements  were  obtained from quotes from the  counterparty  and represent the
amount the Company would pay upon  termination of the agreements at December 31,
1997, based upon the spot and forward foreign  currency  exchange rates existing
in the market at that time.

      Commodity  price  hedges.  The  fair  values  of  commodity  price  hedges
outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996 were obtained from quotes  provided by
the  individual  counterparties  for each agreement and represent the amount the
Company  would be required  to pay as of  December 31 of each of the  respective
years,  based upon the  differential  between a fixed and a  variable  commodity
price as specified in the hedge contracts.

      BTU swap agreements. The fair value of the Btu swap agreements outstanding
at December 31, 1997 were obtained from quotes  provided by the  counterparty to
these  agreements  and represent the amount the Company would be required to pay
as of December 31, 1997 based upon the market price for oil and gas as specified
in the agreements.

NOTE D.     Acquisitions

      During  August  1997,  Parker & Parsley  completed a merger with Mesa that
resulted in the creation of the Company.  The transaction was accounted for as a
purchase of Mesa by Parker & Parsley in accordance  with  Accounting  Principles
Board No. 16,  "Business  Combinations".  In December 1997, the Company acquired
the  Canadian and  Argentine  oil and gas  business of Chauvco  Resources,  Ltd.
("Chauvco"),  which was also  accounted for as a purchase by the Company.  These
transactions  were  accomplished  through the  issuance  of common  stock of the
Company to Mesa and  Chauvco  shareholders  (31,782,263  shares  and  24,916,934
shares, respectively).  The aggregate purchase consideration for assets acquired
and  liabilities  assumed  from Mesa and Chauvco  was $991.0  million and $696.4
million,  respectively.  The following  table  represents  the allocation of the
total purchase price of Mesa and Chauvco to the acquired  assets and liabilities
based upon the fair values assigned to each of the  significant  assets acquired
and  liabilities  assumed.  Any  future  adjustments  to the  allocation  of the
purchase  price are not  anticipated  to be material to the Company's  financial
statements.

                                       47

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                                        Allocation
                                                       of Aggregate
                                                         Purchase
                                                      Consideration
                                                -----------   ----------
                                                    Mesa        Chauvco
                                                -----------   ----------
                                                     (in thousands)

    Net working capital                         $     4,480   $  (19,989)
    Property, plant and equipment                 2,514,649    1,164,797
    Other assets                                     52,693       32,025
    Long-term debt                               (1,191,038)    (234,709)
    Other non-current liabilities,
      including deferred taxes                     (389,814)    (245,748)
                                                 ----------    ---------
                                                $   990,970   $  696,376
                                                 ==========    =========
    The Company common stock consideration      $   982,566   $  688,330
    Transaction costs                                 8,404        8,046
                                                 ----------    ---------
    Aggregate purchase consideration            $   990,970   $  696,376
                                                 ==========    =========

      The  liabilities  assumed  include  amounts  recorded for  litigation  and
certain other preacquisition contingencies of Mesa and Chauvco.

      On December 19, 1997,  the Company  completed an  acquisition of assets in
the East Texas Basin from American  Cometra,  Inc. ("ACI") and Rockland Pipeline
Co.  ("Rockland"),  both  subsidiaries of Electrafina S.A. of Belgium  ("America
Cometra  Acquisition").  The total  consideration  paid was  approximately  $130
million,  consisting  of $85  million  in cash  and 1.6  million  shares  of the
Company's common stock.  The Company  acquired ACI's producing  wells,  acreage,
seismic data,  royalties and mineral interests,  and Rockland's gathering system
pipeline and gas processing plant in the East Texas Basin.

      Pro forma  results of  operations.  The following  table  reflects the pro
forma results of operations as though the merger with Mesa,  the  acquisition of
Chauvco, the 1996 sale of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and the 1996 sale of
certain nonstrategic  domestic assets occurred on January 1, 1996. The pro forma
results of operations of the America  Cometra  Acquisition  are not presented as
they are not material to the consolidated financial statements of the Company.

                                                               Year ended
                                                              December 31,
                                                         ---------------------
                                                            1997       1996
                                                         ---------   ---------
                                                         (in thousands, except
                                                             per share data)
                                                               (Unaudited)

  Revenues.............................................  $ 909,564   $ 959,208
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item..............  $(931,784)  $  48,717
  Income (loss) per share before extraordinary item....  $   (9.42)  $     .49

                                       48

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


NOTE E.     Long-term Debt

      Long-term debt consists of the following:
                                                              December 31,
                                                        -----------------------
                                                           1997         1996
                                                        ----------   ----------
                                                             (in thousands)

     Lines of credit and term note....................  $1,608,980   $    9,000
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005.....................     150,000      150,000
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007 (net of discount)...     149,345      149,277
     Other............................................      41,184       18,012
                                                         ---------    ---------
                                                         1,949,509      326,289
     Less current maturities..........................       5,791        5,381
                                                         ---------    ---------
                                                        $1,943,718   $  320,908
                                                         =========    =========

      Maturities  of  long-term  debt at  December  31,  1997 are as follows (in
thousands):

             1998............................................  $   5,791
             1999............................................     34,098
             2000............................................     10,943
             2001............................................     12,053
             2002............................................  1,357,646
             Thereafter......................................    528,978

      Lines of credit and term note. On August 7, 1997,  the successor to Parker
& Parsley and Mesa  Operating  Company,  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc.
("Pioneer USA") (the  "Borrower"),  entered into two credit Facility  Agreements
("Credit  Facility  Agreements")  with a syndicate of banks (the  "Banks")  that
refinanced  the credit  facilities of Parker & Parsley and Mesa. On December 18,
1997,  the Company  amended  and  restated  the Credit  Facility  Agreements  to
substitute  the  Company as the  Borrower  in place of Pioneer  USA.  One Credit
Facility Agreement (the "Primary Facility") provides for a $1.075 billion credit
facility.  The  maturity  date for the Primary  Facility is August 7, 2002.  The
second Credit Facility  Agreement (the "364-day  Facility")  provides for a $300
million credit facility with a maturity date of August 5, 1998. The Borrower has
the  option to renew the  364-day  Facility  for  another  period of 364 days by
notifying  the lending  banks in writing of such  election not more than 60 days
and not less than 45 days prior to the maturity date.

      Advances  on  both  Credit  Facility  Agreements  bear  interest,  at  the
Borrower's  option,  based on (a) the prime rate of NationsBank  of Texas,  N.A.
("Prime Rate") (8.5% at December 31, 1997), (b) a Eurodollar rate (substantially
equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR")),  adjusted for the reserve
requirement  as  determined  by the Board of  Governors  of the Federal  Reserve
System with respect to transactions in Eurocurrency  liabilities ("LIBOR Rate"),
or (c) a  competitive  bid rate as  quoted  by the  lending  banks  electing  to
participate pursuant to a request by the Borrower.  Advances that are LIBOR Rate
have periodic  maturities,  at the Borrower's  option,  of one, two, three, six,
nine or twelve  months.  Advances  that are  competitive  bid rate have periodic
maturities, at the Borrower's option, of not less than 15 days nor more than 360
days. The interest rates on the LIBOR Rate advances vary, with the interest rate
margin ranging from 18 basis points to 47 basis points. The interest rate margin
is  determined  by a grid based upon the Company's  senior  unsecured  long-term
public debt rating. The Company's  obligations are guaranteed by Pioneer USA and
certain other U.S. subsidiaries, and are secured by a pledge of a portion of the
capital stock of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.

      The Credit Facility Agreements contain various  restrictive  covenants and
compliance  requirements,   which  include  (a)  limits  on  the  incurrence  of
additional  indebtedness  and certain types of liens and (b)  restrictions as to
merger, sale or transfer of assets and transactions without the Banks' consent.

                                       49

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      The Company also executed a $100 million note (the "Term Note"),  dated as
of December 22, 1997,  payable to NationsBank of Texas,  N.A. to fund short-term
working  capital needs.  The Term Note has a maturity date of April 1, 1999, and
bears interest at the borrower's option, at the Prime Rate or the LIBOR Rate. At
the request of the  Company,  the Term Note was  canceled  on January 20,  1998.
Also, on December 18, 1997, the Company refinanced all of Chauvco's  outstanding
debt by  establishing a $290 million  Canadian  credit  facility under which the
borrower is Pioneer Natural  Resources Canada Inc.  (formerly known as Chauvco),
and the Company and certain of its  subsidiaries  (not  including  Pioneer  USA)
provide guarantees.

      Senior notes.  At December 31, 1997, the following two issuances of senior
indebtedness were outstanding.

      8-7/8%  senior notes due 2005.  $150 million  aggregate  principal  amount
8-7/8%  senior notes dated April 12, 1995,  due April 15, 2005.  Interest on the
8-7/8% senior notes is payable  semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each
year, commencing October 15, 1995.

      8-1/4%  senior notes due 2007.  $150 million  aggregate  principal  amount
8-1/4%  senior notes dated August 22,  1995,  due August 15, 2007.  These 8-1/4%
senior  notes  were sold at a discount  aggregating  $816,000.  Interest  on the
8-1/4%  senior  notes is payable  semi-annually  on February 15 and August 15 of
each year, commencing February 15, 1996.

      Both senior  note  issuances  are  governed  by an  Indenture  between the
Company and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association)  dated April 12,
1995.  Both  senior note  issuances  are general  unsecured  obligations  of the
Company  ranking  equally in right of payment  with all other  senior  unsecured
indebtedness  of the Company and are senior in right of payment to all  existing
and future subordinated indebtedness of the Company. In addition, the Company is
a holding company that conducts all its operations through subsidiaries, and the
senior notes issuances are  structurally  subordinated to all obligations of its
subsidiaries.  Pioneer USA has fully and unconditionally  guaranteed both senior
note issuances.

      Tender Offer for Senior  Subordinated  Notes.  On December  18, 1997,  the
Company completed a cash tender offer for two senior subordinated note issuances
(the "Subordinated  Notes") assumed as part of the merger with Mesa. The Company
redeemed approximately 91% of the 11-5/8% senior subordinated discount notes due
2006 and  approximately  98% of the 10-5/8% senior  subordinated  notes due 2006
(the  "10-5/8%   Notes")  for  a  purchase   price  of  $829.90  and  $1,171.40,
respectively, per $1,000 tendered plus any interest accrued on the 10-5/8% Notes
(the  "Tender  Offer").  As a result,  the Company  paid $574.5  million for the
principal amount tendered on the Subordinated Notes, including related fees, and
$15.7  million of accrued  interest  on the  10-5/8%  Notes.  As a result of the
Tender  Offer,   the  Company   recognized  an   extraordinary   loss  on  early
extinguishment  of debt of $11.9  million  (net of a related tax benefit of $6.4
million)  during the fourth quarter of 1997.  The Company  financed the purchase
price of the Subordinated  Notes tendered in the offer with borrowings under its
Credit Facility Agreements.

      Extraordinary  item. In addition to the extraordinary  loss resulting from
the Tender Offer described  above, the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement of
Operations  for the year ended December 31, 1997 includes a $1.5 million (net of
a related tax benefit of $800 thousand) noncash charge for an extraordinary loss
on early  extinguishment of debt resulting from the mergers.  This extraordinary
loss relates to  capitalized  issuance fees  associated  with Parker & Parsley's
previously  existing bank credit  facility  which was replaced by the new Credit
Facility Agreements for the Company.

      In October  1995,  the  Company  transferred  cash and certain oil and gas
properties   with  an  aggregate   estimated  value  of  $1.1  million  in  full
satisfaction of a non-recourse  note secured by the  properties,  the balance of
which  was  approximately  $7.7  million.  As a  result,  in 1995,  the  Company
recognized an  extraordinary  gain on the early  extinguishment  of debt of $4.3
million (net of related tax expense of $2.3 million).

                                       50

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      Interest  expense.  The  following  amounts  have been charged to interest
expense for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995:

                                                      1997     1996      1995
                                                    -------   -------   -------
                                                          (in thousands)

   Cash payments for interest.....................  $64,667   $44,405   $59,767
   Cash payments for commitment and agency fees...    1,073       804     1,650
   Accretion of discounts on loans................    7,348       261       617
   Amortization of capitalized loan fees..........    1,177     1,286     2,022
   Net change in accruals.........................    3,285      (601)    1,393
                                                     ------    ------    ------
                                                    $77,550   $46,155   $65,449
                                                     ======    ======    ======

      The above amounts  include $6 million in 1997, $12 million in 1996 and $12
million  in  1995  associated  with  the  Preferred   Shares  of  the  Company's
wholly-owned finance subsidiary (see Note I).

NOTE F.     Related Party Transactions

      Activities  with  affiliated   partnerships.   The  Company,  through  its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries,   has  in  the  past  sponsored  certain  affiliated
partnerships,   including   thirty-five   public  and  nine   private   drilling
partnerships  and three  public  income  partnerships,  all of which were formed
primarily  for the  purpose  of  drilling  and  completing  wells  or  acquiring
producing properties. In accordance with the terms of the partnership agreements
and the related tax partnership agreements of the affiliated  partnerships,  the
Company  participated  in the  activities  of the  sponsored  partnerships  on a
promoted basis. In 1992, the Company discontinued  sponsoring public and private
oil and gas development drilling and income partnerships.

      During each of 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company formed a Direct Investment
Partnership  for the purpose of  permitting  selected  key  employees  to invest
directly, on an unpromoted basis, in wells that the Company drills. The partners
in the  Direct  Investment  Partnerships  formed in 1994,  1993 and 1992 pay and
receive approximately .337%, 1.5375% and 1.865%, respectively,  of the costs and
revenues  attributable  to the  Company's  interest  in the wells in which  such
Direct  Investment  Partnership  participates.   The  Company  discontinued  the
formation of Direct Investment Partnerships in 1995.

      The  Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

      The  activities  with  affiliated  partnerships  are  summarized  for  the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995:
                                                          1997    1996    1995
                                                         ------  ------  ------
                                                             (in thousands)
 Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges
   in accordance with standard industry operating
   agreements........................................... $8,547  $8,484  $8,458
 Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses...  1,476   1,246   1,153

      Retirement Plans.  Effective August 8, 1997, the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement plan for the
officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and key employee
is allowed to contribute  up to 25% of their base salary.  The Company will then
provide a matching  contribution  of 100% of the  officer's  and key  employee's
contribution limited to the first 10% of the officer's base salary and 8% of the
key  employee's  base  salary.   The  Company's   matching   contribution  vests
immediately.  A trust fund has been established by the Company to accumulate the
contributions  made under this  retirement  plan.  The  Company  does not have a
defined benefit retirement plan.

                                       51

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      During  1996 and prior to August  1997,  the  officers of Parker & Parsley
participated in a similar deferred compensation  retirement plan as noted above.
As part of the merger  with Mesa,  the plan's  change of control  provision  was
triggered and all funds contributed  through August 1997 were immediately vested
and distributed.

      Consulting Fee.  Effective  September 1, 1997, the Company entered into an
agreement with Rainwater,  Inc., the general partner of DNR-Mesa Holdings,  L.P.
("DNR"),  modifying certain terms of a prior agreement between DNR and Mesa. The
prior  agreement  was assumed by the  Company  upon  consummation  of the merger
between Parker & Parsley and Mesa.  Pursuant to the terms of this agreement,  as
modified,  the Company will pay Rainwater,  Inc. $400,000 per year and reimburse
Rainwater, Inc. for certain expenses in consideration for certain consulting and
financial  analysis  services  to  the  Company  by  Rainwater,   Inc.  and  its
representatives.

NOTE G.     Incentive Plans

Long-Term Incentive Plan

      In August  1997,  the  Company's  stockholders  approved  a new  long-term
incentive plan (the "Long-Term Incentive Plan"), which provides for the granting
of incentive  awards in the form of stock options,  stock  appreciation  rights,
performance  units and restricted stock to directors,  officers and employees of
the Company. The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum
number of shares of common  stock equal to 10% of the total  number of shares of
common stock equivalents  outstanding minus the total number of shares of common
stock subject to outstanding  awards on the date of calculation  under any other
stock-based plan for the directors, officers or employees of the Company.

      The following  table  summarizes  the  cumulative  stock and option awards
granted,  forfeited,  exercised,  in the  case  of  options,  and the  lapse  of
restrictions,  in the case of shares,  under the Company's  Long-Term  Incentive
Plan during 1997:

                                                   For the year ended
                                                    December 31, 1997
                                         -------------------------------------
                                           Shares       Options        Total
                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
  Granted                                  476,914     1,716,625     2,193,539
  Forfeited                                    -             -              -
  Options exercised                            -             -              -
  Shares with lapse of restrictions            -             -              -
                                         ---------    ----------     ----------

  Outstanding, end of year                 476,914     1,716,625     2,193,539
                                         ---------    ----------     ---------

      The following table  calculates the number of shares or options  available
for grant under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan as of December 31, 1997:

                                                              December 31, 1997
                                                              -----------------
  Shares outstanding                                             101,036,971
  Options outstanding                                              1,716,625
                                                                 -----------
                                                                 102,753,596
                                                                 ===========
  Maximum shares/options allowed under
      Long-Term Incentive Plan                                    10,275,360

  Less: Outstanding awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan        (2,193,539)
        Outstanding options under Mesa 1991 stock option plan      (418,478)
        Outstanding options under Mesa 1996 incentive plan         (510,000)
        Outstanding options under Parker & Parsley long-term
          incentive plan                                           (896,042)
                                                                 -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant                        6,257,301
                                                                 ===========

                                       52

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995



Restricted stock awards

      Non-employee  directors.  Pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, on the
last business day of the month in which the annual  meeting of the  stockholders
of the Company is held, each non-employee director will automatically receive an
award of Common Stock equal to 50% of the then current annual retainer fee. This
award is made in lieu of an amount of cash equal to 50% of the  annual  retainer
fee. The number of shares  included in each such award is determined by dividing
50% of the annual  retainer  fee by the  closing  sales  price of the  Company's
common stock on the business day immediately preceding the date of the award. In
August 1997, each non-employee director received 50% of the amount of the annual
retainer fee to be paid to such  non-employee  director as compensation  for his
services  during the 1997 annual term in restricted  stock.  The Company  issued
5,939 shares pursuant to this arrangement.

      When issued,  the shares of common stock awarded pursuant to the Long-Term
Incentive  Plan are  subject to  transfer  restrictions  that lapse on the first
anniversary of the date of the award. In addition, if a non-employee  director's
services as a director of the Company are  terminated  for any reason before the
next annual meeting of the Company's  stockholders,  a portion of the shares are
forfeited,  with the number of  forfeited  shares  being  based on the number of
regularly  scheduled  meetings of the Board of  Directors  remaining  to be held
before the next annual meeting of the Company's stockholders.

      Officers  and key  employees.  The  Company's  policy is to pay any annual
bonuses  awarded to selected  officers and key  employees  partially in cash and
partially in the form of restricted  stock awards under the Long-Term  Incentive
Plan. The Company has  established  target bonus levels for each officer and key
employee.  Based upon Company and individual  performance  during the year, each
officer or key employee has the potential to earn more or less than their target
bonus  level.  The bonus  awards are  determined  in the quarter  following  the
Company's  December 31 year-end.  Any restricted  stock awarded pursuant to this
program will be limited to one-half of each officer's or key  employee's  target
bonus level,  and the remainder of the officer's or key employee's  annual bonus
will be paid in cash. The number of shares of restricted  stock that are awarded
pursuant to the annual bonus  program is based on the closing sales price of the
Company's  common stock on the day immediately  preceding the date of the award.
Ownership of the  restricted  stock  awarded vests one year after the date it is
issued but is subject to transfer  restrictions  that lapse on  one-third of the
shares  on each of the  first,  second  and third  anniversaries  of the date of
grant.  Each recipient of restricted stock also receives an amount of cash equal
to the estimated federal income taxes payable as a result of the receipt of such
award. On February 9, 1998, the Company awarded an aggregate of 81,378 shares of
restricted  stock at a price  of  $22.375  pursuant  to the  1997  annual  bonus
program.

      During 1997, the Company has made other Long-Term Incentive Plan awards of
470,975  shares to certain  officers and key  employees.  The shares awarded are
subject to a vesting period and transfer restrictions.

Stock Options Awards

      The Company has a program of awarding annual stock options to its officers
and  employees  as part of  their  annual  compensation  package.  This  program
provides  for annual  awards at an exercise  price based upon the closing  sales
price of the Company's  common stock on the date of grant,  a three year vesting
schedule and a five year  exercise  period from each vesting  date.  The Company
granted 1,719,625 options under the Long-Term Incentive Plan during 1997.

Other Stock Based Plans

      Prior  to the  merger  with  Mesa,  both  Parker  &  Parsley  and Mesa had
long-term incentive plans (Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, 1991 Stock
Option Plan of Mesa and the 1996  Incentive  Plan of Mesa) in place that allowed
Parker & Parsley and Mesa to grant incentive awards similar to the provisions of
the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon  consummation of the merger between Parker &
Parsley and Mesa,  all awards under these plans were assumed by the Company with
the provision that no additional awards be granted under these plans.

                                       53

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      The information presented in the remainder of this footnote represents the
awards  granted under the Long-Term  Incentive Plan since its approval in August
1997,  the  awards  granted  in 1997,  1996 and 1995  under the Parker & Parsley
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan, and the assumption in August 1997 of the outstanding
option  awards  granted  under the 1991 Stock  Option  Plan of Mesa and the 1996
Incentive Plan of Mesa.

      Restricted  stock awards.  The following  table  reflects the  outstanding
restricted stock awards and activity related thereto for 1997, 1996 and 1995:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         For the year ended     For the year ended     For the year ended
                                         December 31, 1997      December 31, 1996      December 31, 1995
                                        -------------------    -------------------    -------------------
                                                   Weighted               Weighted               Weighted
                                         Number    Average       Number   Average       Number   Average
                                        of Shares   Price      of Shares   Price      of Shares    Price
                                        ---------  --------    ---------  --------    ---------  ---------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>
Restricted stock awards:
 Restricted shares outstanding at
   beginning of year.............         79,819   $  23.35     225,244   $  23.90     476,034    $  24.46
   Shares granted................        506,786   $  37.43      35,080   $  26.54      33,834    $  19.21
   Shares forfeited..............            -     $     -       (1,980)  $  25.13          -     $     -
   Lapse of restrictions.........       (109,691)  $  25.66    (178,525)  $  24.65    (284,624)   $  24.28
                                        --------               --------               --------
 Restricted shares outstanding at end
   of year.......................        476,914   $  37.88      79,819   $  23.35     225,244    $  23.90
                                        ========               ========               ========
</TABLE>

      Stock   options   awards.   The   Company   applies  APB  25  and  related
Interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the  Company's  net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share
would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                  For the year ended
                                                      December 31,
                                           ---------------------------------
                                              1997       1996        1995
                                           ----------  ---------  ----------
                                        (in thousands, except per share amounts)

  Net income (loss):                       $(893,729)  $ 139,297   $ (99,891)
  Basic net income (loss) per share:       $  (17.20)  $    3.90   $   (2.83)
  Diluted net income (loss) per share:     $  (17.20)  $    3.43   $   (2.83)

      Under SFAS 123,  the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the  date of  grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 1997, 1996 and 1995:

                                              1997         1996         1995
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------

   Risk-free interest rate                    5.72%        6.18%        6.06%
   Expected life                            7 years      4 years      4 years
   Expected volatility                          36%          32%          35%
   Expected dividend yield                     .30%         .34%         .52%

                                       54

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      A summary of the  Company's  stock  option  plans as of December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995,  and changes  during the years ended on those dates is  presented
below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          For the year ended    For the year ended     For the year ended
                                          December 31, 1997     December 31, 1996      December 31, 1995
                                        --------------------   --------------------   ---------------------
                                                    Weighted               Weighted               Weighted
                                         Number     Average     Number     Average     Number     Average
                                        of Shares     Price    of Shares    Price     of Shares    Price
                                        ---------   --------   ---------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                                     <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding at beginning of year      1,362,629   $  24.04   1,230,411   $  17.51     924,075   $  15.39
    Options granted...............      1,744,704   $  34.00     637,300   $  29.52     514,283   $  19.23
    Options assumed...............        928,478   $  33.97         -          -           -          -
    Options forfeited.............         (1,500)  $  21.33     (35,000)  $  23.81     (16,664)  $  26.18
    Options exercised.............       (493,166)  $  23.45    (470,082)  $  14.55    (191,283)  $  10.97
                                        ---------              ---------              ---------
  Outstanding at end of year......      3,541,145   $  31.63   1,362,629   $  24.04   1,230,411   $  17.51
                                        =========              =========              =========
  Exercisable at end of year......      1,824,520   $  29.37     358,177   $  18.79     616,591   $  14.89
                                        =========              =========              =========
Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year.........      $   16.10              $   10.03              $    6.71
                                         ========               ========               ========
</TABLE>

      The following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock
options outstanding at December 31, 1997:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  Options Outstanding                        Options Exercisable
                 ---------------------------------------------------  ------------------------------------
                      Number        Weighted Average    Weighted                              Weighted
    Range of      Outstanding at       Remaining         Average       Number Exercisable      Average
Exercise Prices  December 31, 1997  Contractual Life  Exercise Price  at December 31, 1997  Exercise Price
- ---------------  -----------------  ----------------  --------------  --------------------  --------------
<S>              <C>                <C>               <C>             <C>                   <C>
   $ 6 - 15            115,291         3.0 years         $  13.22            115,291           $  13.22
   $19 - 28          1,019,989         4.9 years         $  24.41            911,989           $  24.03
   $29 - 38          1,483,294         4.5 years         $  30.27            461,619           $  29.98
   $39 - 52            903,642         4.3 years         $  43.29            316,692           $  46.61
   $80 - 82             18,929         2.3 years         $  81.81             18,929           $  81.81
                   -----------                                            ----------
                     3,541,145                                             1,824,520
                   ===========                                            ==========
</TABLE>

      The Company  recognized  $3.3  million,  $1.9  million and $7.7 million in
compensation  expense related to its Incentive Plans during 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

NOTE H.     Commitments and Contingencies

      Severance  agreements.  On  August  8,  1997,  the  Company  entered  into
severance  agreements with its parent company and subsidiary  company  officers.
Salaries  and bonuses for the  Company's  officers are set  independent  of this
severance  agreement  by the  Compensation  Committee  for  the  parent  company
officers and the Management  Committee for subsidiary  company  officers.  These
committees can grant  increases or reductions to base salary at its  discretion.
The current annual  salaries for the parent company  officers and the subsidiary
company officers covered under such severance agreement total approximately $3.1
million and $3.2 million, respectively.

      Either the Company or the officer may terminate  the officer's  employment
under the severance  agreement at any time.  The Company must pay the officer an
amount equal to one year's base salary if employment  is  terminated  because of
death,  disability,  or normal  retirement.  The Company must pay the officer an
amount equal to one year's base salary and  continue  health  insurance  for the
officer  and his  immediate  family  for  one  year  if the  Company  terminates
employment  without  cause or if the  officer  terminates  employment  with good
reason,  which occurs when reductions in the officer's base annual salary exceed
specified  limits or if the officer is demoted to an officer  position junior to

                                       55

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


their current officer position or to a non-officer  position. If within one year
after a change in control of the  Company,  the Company  terminates  the officer
without  cause or if the officer  terminates  employment  with good reason,  the
Company must pay parent  company  officers an amount equal to 2.99 times the sum
of the  officer's  base  salary plus  target  bonus for the year and  subsidiary
company  officers  an amount  equal to two times the  officer's  base salary and
continue health insurance for the officer and his immediate family for one year.
If the  officer  terminates  employment  with the  Company  without  good reason
between six months and one year after a change in control, or at any time within
one year after a change in control if the officer is required to move,  then the
Company  must pay the  officer  one  year's  base  salary  and  continue  health
insurance  for the officer and his immediate  family for one year.  Officers are
also entitled to additional  payments for certain tax liabilities that may apply
to severance payments following a change in control.

      Indemnifications. The Company has indemnified its directors and certain of
its officers,  employees  and agents with respect to claims and damages  arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

      Legal actions. The Company is party to various legal actions incidental to
its business,  including,  but not limited to, the proceedings  described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-quarter  basis  and will  adjust  the
litigation  reserve as  appropriate  to reflect the then  current  status of its
litigation.

      Masterson.  In February 1992, the current  lessors of an oil and gas lease
(the "Gas  Lease")  dated April 30,  1955,  between  R.B.  Masterson  et al., as
lessor,  and Colorado  Interstate Gas Company  ("CIG"),  as lessee,  sued CIG in
Federal  District  Court in Amarillo,  Texas,  claiming  that CIG had  underpaid
royalties due under the Gas Lease.  Under the agreements  with CIG, the Company,
as successor to Mesa, has an entitlement to gas produced from the Gas Lease.  In
August 1992, CIG filed a third-party  complaint against the Company for any such
royalty  underpayment which may be allocable to the Company.  Plaintiffs alleged
that the underpayment was the result of CIG's use of an improper gas sales price
upon which to  calculate  royalties  and that the proper  price should have been
determined pursuant to a "favored-nations"  clause in a July 1, 1967,  amendment
to the Gas Lease.  The  plaintiffs  also sought a declaration by the court as to
the proper price to be used for calculating future royalties.

      The plaintiffs alleged royalty underpayments of approximately $500 million
(including  interest  at 10%)  covering  the period  from July 1,  1967,  to the
present.  In March 1995, the court made certain pretrial rulings that eliminated
approximately  $400 million of the plaintiff's  claims (which related to periods
prior to October 1,  1989),  but which  also  reduced a number of the  Company's
defenses.  The Company  and CIG filed  stipulations  with the court  whereby the
Company  would have been liable for between 50% and 60%,  depending  on the time
period  covered,  of an  adverse  judgment  against  CIG or  post-February  1988
underpayments of royalties.

      On March  22,  1995,  a jury  trial  began  and on May 4,  1995,  the jury
returned its  verdict.  Among its  findings,  the jury  determined  that CIG had
underpaid  royalties  for the period after  September 30, 1989, in the amount of
approximately    $140,000.    Although   the   plaintiffs    argued   that   the
"favored-nations"  clause  entitled  them to be paid for all of their gas at the
highest price  voluntarily paid by CIG to any other lessor,  the jury determined
that the  plaintiffs  were estopped  from  claiming  that the  "favored-nations"
clause provides for other than a pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme comparison. In
light  of  this   determination,   and  the  plaintiff's   stipulation   that  a
pricing-scheme  to  pricing-scheme  comparison  would not result in any "trigger
prices" or damages,  defendants  asked the court for a judgment that  plaintiffs
take nothing. The court, on June 7, 1995, entered final judgment that plaintiffs
recover no monetary damages. The plaintiffs filed a motion for new trial on June
22, 1995. The court, on July 18, 1997, denied plaintiffs' motion. The plaintiffs
have appealed to the Fifth Circuit.

      On June 7, 1996, the plaintiffs  filed a separate suit against CIG and the
Company in state court in Amarillo,  Texas,  similarly claiming  underpayment of
royalties under the "favored-nations" clause, but based upon the above-described

                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme comparison on a well-by-well monthly basis. The
plaintiffs also claim  underpayment  of royalties since June 7, 1995,  under the
"favored-nations"  clause based upon either the pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme
method or their previously  alleged higher price method. The Company believes it
has several  defenses to this action and intends to contest it  vigorously.  The
Company  has not yet  determined  the amount of damages,  if any,  that would be
payable if such action was determined adversely to the Company.

      The federal  court in the  above-referenced  first suit issued an order on
July 29, 1996, which stayed the state suit pending the plaintiffs' resolution of
the first suit.

      However,  based on the jury verdict and final  judgment,  the Company does
not currently expect the ultimate resolution of either of these lawsuits to have
a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

Kansas Ad Valorem Tax

      The  Natural  Gas  Policy  Act  of  1978  ("NGPA")  allows  a  "severance,
production  or  similar"  tax to be  included  as an add-on,  over and above the
maximum  lawful  price for natural  gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission  ("FERC")  ruling  that  Kansas ad valorem  tax was such a tax,  Mesa
collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition to the otherwise  maximum lawful
price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia ("D.C. Circuit"), which held in June 1988 that the FERC
failed to provide a reasoned basis for its findings and remanded the case to the
FERC for further consideration.

      On December 1, 1993, the FERC issued an order  reversing its prior ruling,
but  limiting  the effect of its  decision to Kansas ad valorem  taxes for sales
made on or after June 28, 1988.  The FERC  clarified the  effective  date of its
decision by an order dated May 18, 1994. The order  clarified that the effective
date applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28,  1988,  not sales made on or
after that date. Numerous parties filed appeals on the FERC's action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various  natural gas  producers  challenged  the FERC's  orders on two
grounds: (1) that the Kansas ad valorem tax, properly  understood,  does qualify
for  reimbursement  under the NGPA;  and (2) the FERC's  ruling  should,  in any
event,  have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties  challenged  the FERC's
orders  on  the  grounds  that  the  FERC's  ruling  should  have  been  applied
retroactively  to December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment  of the NGPA and
producers should have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

      The D.C.  Circuit issued its decision on August 2, 1996,  which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production  since October 4, 1983 as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were  denied on  November  6, 1996.  Various  natural  gas  producers
subsequently  filed a  petition  for writ of  certiori  with the  United  States
Supreme Court  seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills
rendered on or after June 28, 1988 (the  effective date  originally  selected by
the FERC).  Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori
seeking to impose refund liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were
denied on May 12, 1997.

      The Company and other  producers  filed  petitions for adjustment with the
FERC on June 24, 1997.  The Company is seeking  waiver or set-off from FERC with
respect  to that  portion  of the  refund  associated  with  (i)  non-recoupable
royalties,  (ii)  non-recoupable  Kansas property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher prices  collected,  and (iii) interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file  claims on refunds  sought  from  producers  and  refunds  totaling
approximately $30 million were made against the Company. Although the Company is
unable at this time to predict  the final  outcome of this matter or the amount,
if any, that will ultimately be refunded, the Company has recorded a $30 million
provision for such litigation in the accompanying  Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 1997.

                                       57

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      Lease agreements. The Company leases equipment and office facilities under
noncancellable  operating  leases on which  rental  expense  for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was  approximately  $3.7 million,  $2.9 million
and  $3.6  million,   respectively.   Future  minimum  lease  commitments  under
noncancellable  operating  leases  at  December  31,  1997  are as  follows  (in
thousands):

              1998..................................  $  7,648
              1999..................................     6,625
              2000..................................     5,321
              2001..................................     2,149
              2002..................................     1,493
              Thereafter............................     1,860

NOTE I.     Preferred Stock of Subsidiary

      On July 28, 1997, the Company issued 6.7 million shares of common stock in
exchange for the 3,776,400 Preferred Shares outstanding.  These Preferred Shares
were originally  issued by Parker & Parsley Capital LLC, a wholly-owned  finance
subsidiary  of the Company,  in 1994.  As a result of the  exchange,  the $188.8
million  reflected  in  the  caption  "Preferred  stock  of  subsidiary"  in the
accompanying   Consolidated   Balance   Sheet  as  of  December   31,  1996  was
reclassified,   net  of  unamortized  issuance  costs  of  $5.8  million,   into
stockholders'  equity.  During  1997,  1996 and 1995,  the  Company  recorded $6
million,  $12  million  and  $12  million,  respectively,  of  interest  expense
associated with the Preferred Shares.

NOTE J.     Derivative Financial Instruments

      The  Company  has  only  limited  involvement  with  derivative  financial
instruments and generally does not use them for trading purposes.  They are used
to manage  well-defined  interest rate and commodity price risks. The Company is
exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to
its  interest  rate  swap  agreements  and its  commodity  hedges.  The  Company
anticipates,  however,  that such  counterparties  will be able to fully satisfy
their obligations under the contracts. The Company does not obtain collateral or
other  security  to support  financial  instruments  subject to credit  risk but
monitors the credit standing of the counterparties.

      As part of the  acquisitions  of Mesa and Chauvco,  the Company became the
successor to certain derivative  financial  instruments  entered into by Mesa or
Chauvco which do not qualify for hedge  accounting  treatment.  Such instruments
will be  marked-to-market  at the  end of each  reporting  period  during  their
respective  lives and the  effects on the  Company's  results of  operations  in
future periods could be significant.  During 1998, the Company intends to review
each of  these  instruments  to  determine  if it is  feasible  to  unwind  such
instruments in light of market conditions.  Those instruments not qualifying for
hedge accounting are designated under the heading  "Mark-to-Market  Derivatives"
below.

Hedge Derivatives

      Interest  rate swap  agreements.  During the second  quarter of 1996,  the
Company  entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate
amount of $150 million with four counterparties.  These agreements, which have a
term of three years,  effectively convert a portion of the Company's  fixed-rate
borrowings into floating-rate obligations. The weighted average fixed rate being
received by the  Company  over the term of these  agreements  is 6.62% while the
weighted  average variable rate paid by the Company for the years ended December
31, 1997 and 1996 was 5.78% and 5.56%,  respectively.  The variable rate will be
redetermined  approximately  every six months  based  upon the London  interbank
offered  rate at that point in time.  The  Company is also party to an  interest
rate  swap  agreement  for  an  aggregate   amount  of  $250  million  with  one
counterparty.  This two-year  agreement  expires in August 1998 and  effectively
converts a portion of the Company's  floating-rate  borrowings  into  fixed-rate
obligations.  The effect of this  agreement  is to provide the  Company  with an
interest rate of 6.23% on $250 million in nominal  principal amount for the term
of the  agreement.  Under market  conditions at December 31, 1997, the effective
annual interest rate associated with this agreement was 6.51%.  The accompanying
Consolidated Statements of  Operations for the years ended December 31, 1997 and

                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


and 1996  include a reduction  in  interest  expense of $847  thousand  and $787
thousand,  respectively,  to  account  for the  settlement  of these  rate  swap
agreements.

      During 1997, the Company  entered into two agreements  with a counterparty
that  obligated  the Company to sell U.S.  Treasury  securities  at a designated
point in the future. The face amount of the U.S. Treasury  securities to be sold
is $300 million at interest rates ranging from 6.05% to 6.33%.  These agreements
effectively  convert a portion of the Company's  floating-rate  borrowings  into
fixed-rate obligations. In January 1998, the Company terminated these agreements
at a cost of $16.8  million.  This amount will be amortized over the life of the
Company's Primary Facility.

      Commodity  hedges.  The Company utilizes various swap and option contracts
to (i) reduce the effect of the  volatility of price changes on the  commodities
the Company  produces  and sells,  (ii)  support the  Company's  annual  capital
budgeting  and  expenditure  plans and  (iii)  lock in  prices  to  protect  the
economics related to certain capital projects.

      Crude oil. All material  purchase  contracts  governing  the Company's oil
production are tied directly or indirectly to NYMEX prices.  The following table
sets forth the  Company's  outstanding  oil hedge  contracts  as of December 31,
1997.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                First         Second         Third         Fourth         Yearly
                               Quarter        Quarter       Quarter        Quarter        Average
                            ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Daily oil production:
   1998 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)                 12,900         11,581          8,900          8,900         10,555
     Price per Bbl          $      19.23   $      19.36   $      19.75   $      19.74   $      19.48

   1998 - Collar Options
     Volume (Bbl)                  2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000
     Price per Bbl          $18.40-21.50   $18.40-21.50   $18.40-21.50   $18.40-21.50   $18.40-21.50

   1998 - Put Options
     Volume (Bbl)                  2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000
     Price per Bbl          $      18.40   $      18.40   $      18.40   $      18.40   $      18.40
</TABLE>

      The Company  reports  average oil prices per Bbl  including the effects of
oil quality,  gathering and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's oil prices,  both realized
and reported, and net effects of settlements of oil price hedges to revenue:

                                                   Year ended December 31,
                                                -----------------------------
                                                 1997       1996       1995
                                                -------    -------    -------
     Average price reported per Bbl             $ 18.51    $ 19.96    $ 16.96
     Average price realized per Bbl             $ 19.09    $ 21.33    $ 17.02
     Reduction to revenue (in millions)         $   7.9    $  15.4    $    .8

     Natural Gas Liquids.  The Company  employs a policy of hedging  natural gas
liquids  based  on  actual  product  prices  in order  to  mitigate  some of the
volatility  associated  with NYMEX  pricing.  Natural gas liquids are sold under
long-term  contracts  which provide price  flexibility  and allow the Company to
maximize  prices between  trading hubs. At December 31, 1997, the Company had no
outstanding NGL hedge contracts.

     During year ended December 31, 1997, the Company  reported  average natural
gas  liquids  prices of $12.59  per Bbl while  realizing  an  average  price for
physical sales (excluding  hedging results) of $12.61 per Bbl and recorded a net
decrease to natural gas liquids revenue of $77,600.

                                       59

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      Natural Gas. The Company employs a policy of hedging gas production  based
on the index price upon which the gas is actually  sold in order to mitigate the
basis risk between  NYMEX prices and actual index prices.  The  following  table
sets forth the  Company's  outstanding  gas hedge  contracts  as of December 31,
1997.  Prices included  herein  represent the Company's  weighted  average index
price per MMBtu and, as an additional  point of reference,  the weighted average
price for the portion of the Company's gas which is hedged based on NYMEX.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     First      Second       Third      Fourth     Yearly
                                    Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter    Average
                                  ----------    --------    --------    -------   ---------
<S>                              <C>            <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>
Daily gas production:
   1998 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)                    170,346      87,643      75,000     48,478      94,977
     Index price per MMBtu        $     2.51    $   2.20    $   2.17    $  2.16   $    2.33
     NYMEX price per MMBtu        $     2.61    $   2.28    $   2.27    $  2.32   $    2.44

   1998 - Collar Options
     Volume (Mcf)                     40,000         -           -          -         9,863
     Index price per MMBtu        $2.50-3.44    $    -      $    -      $   -     $2.50-3.44

   1998 - Put Options
     Volume (Mcf)                      3,278     102,555     122,500     72,772      75,596
     Index price per MMBtu        $     2.50    $   1.88    $   1.87    $  1.87   $    1.88

   1999 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)                     15,000      37,445      32,500     10,951      23,986
     Index price per MMBtu        $     1.86    $   2.04    $   2.07    $  2.07   $    2.03
     NYMEX price per MMBtu        $     2.03    $   2.03    $   2.15    $  2.32   $    2.10
</TABLE>

      In addition to the open positions above for the first quarter of 1998, the
Company  has sold short put options  for 43,278  MMBtu's per day.  Consequently,
there is no  effective  minimum  price to be  realized  from the  collar and put
options if the NYMEX price falls below $2.48.

      The Company  reports  average gas prices per Mcf  including the effects of
Btu content,  gathering and  transportation  costs, gas processing and shrinkage
and the net  effect  of the gas  hedges.  The  following  table  sets  forth the
Company's gas prices, both realized and reported, and net effects of settlements
of gas price hedges to revenue:
                                                     Year ended December 31,
                                                   --------------------------
                                                    1997      1996      1995
                                                   ------    ------    ------
  Average price reported per Mcf                   $ 2.20    $ 2.27    $ 1.84
  Average price realized per Mcf                   $ 2.41    $ 2.39    $ 1.70
  Addition/(reduction) to revenue (in millions)    $(21.9)   $ (9.0)   $ 12.1

Mark-to-Market Derivatives

      Interest rate  swap/currency  swap. At December 31, 1997,  the Company was
party to a swap  agreement  with a  counterparty  in which  the  Company  paid a
fixed-rate of interest in Canadian dollars and received a fixed-rate of interest
in U.S.  dollars.  This  agreement was entered into in 1994 and expires in 2001.
During its term the  notional  amount of the swap is U.S.  $60  million  through
August  1998 at which  time it  reduces  by U.S.  $15  million  per  year  until
termination.  The C$ notional amount also reduces accordingly during this period
while  maintaining  the U.S.$/C$  exchange rate specified in the agreement.  The
overall  effect of this agreement is that the Company pays a fixed rate of 6.50%
on the C$ notional amount utilizing a fixed currency conversion rate of $U.S./C$
of 1.343.

      Interest  rate cap.  At  December  31,  1997,  the Company was party to an
interest rate cap agreement with a counterparty  which caps the Canadian  dollar
banker's  acceptance  rate at 8.00% on a notional  amount of C$80  million.  The
agreement  was entered  into in 1997 and expires in  September  1999.  Under the
agreement, the Company pays the counterparty a fixed amount in C$ on a quarterly

                                       60

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


basis. The counterparty has no payment obligation to the Company until such time
as the Canadian banker's acceptance  reference rate exceeds 8.00%. The effect of
this  agreement,  in periods in which the reference  rate is below 8.00%,  is to
increase the interest  rate on C$80  million of  floating-rate  debt by 28 basis
points (0.28%).

      Foreign currency  agreements.  The Company has a series of forward foreign
exchange  swap  agreements  to exchange one  currency  for a second  currency at
future dates for a fixed amount of the first currency.  As of December 31, 1997,
the  U.S.  dollar  equivalent  of  foreign  currency  exchange  swap  agreements
approximated  $216 million.  All such  contracts  were Canadian  dollars to U.S.
dollar swaps.  The average  forward rate achieved on these swaps at December 31,
1997 was $1.365 to one Canadian dollar.  These contracts mature at various dates
in the fourth quarter of 2000.

      Fair market  value  adjustment.  During  1996,  Mesa entered into BTU swap
agreements  covering 13,036 MMBTU per day from January 1, 1997 through  December
31,  2004.  Under the terms of these  agreements,  the  Company  will  receive a
premium of $.52 per MMBTU over market  natural  gas prices from  January 1, 1997
through  December 31, 1998.  Following  this two-year  period,  the Company will
receive 10% of the NYMEX oil price for the volumes covered for a six-year period
beginning  January 1, 1999 and ending  December  31, 2004.  As these  derivative
contracts do not qualify as hedges,  the Company recorded a $5.2 million noncash
pre-tax  mark-to-market  adjustment  to  the  carrying  value  of the  BTU  swap
agreements in 1997. These contracts will continue to be  marked-to-market at the
end of each reporting  period during their  respective  lives and the effects on
the Company's results of operations in future periods could be significant.

NOTE K.     Sales to Major Customers

      The  Company's  share  of oil  and  gas  production  is  sold  to  various
purchasers.  The  Company is of the opinion  that the loss of any one  purchaser
would not have an adverse  effect on the  ability of the Company to sell its oil
and gas production.

      The following  customers  individually  accounted for more than 10% of the
consolidated oil and gas revenues of the Company:
                                                  Percentage of Consolidated
     Customer                                        Oil and Gas Revenues
                                                   ------------------------
                                                   1997      1996      1995
                                                   ----      ----      ----
     Genesis Crude Oil, L.P......................   23%       28%       19%
     Mobil Oil Corporation.......................   16%       22%       17%
     Producers Energy Marketing, LLC (a).........   11%        6%       -
     Western Gas Resources.......................   10%        9%        4%
- -------------

(a)  Producers Energy  Marketing,  LLC  ("ProEnergy") is a natural gas marketing
     company in which the  Company  owned a  noncontrolling  member  interest of
     approximately  10% during  1997 and 1996.  Effective  January 1, 1998,  the
     Company has withdrawn as a member of ProEnergy.

      At  December  31,  1997,  the  amounts  receivable  from  Genesis,  Mobil,
ProEnergy  and Western were $7.9 million,  $5.9  million,  $9.2 million and $7.8
million, respectively,  which are included in the caption "Accounts receivable -
oil and gas sales" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

NOTE L.     Disposition of Australasian Assets

      On March 28, 1996, the Company completed the sale of certain  wholly-owned
Australian  subsidiaries  to Santos  Ltd.,  and on June 20,  1996,  the  Company
completed  the sale of another  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Bridge Oil Timor Sea,
Inc., to Phillips Petroleum  International  Investment Company.  During the year

                                       61

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


ended December 31, 1996, the Company received aggregate  consideration of $237.5
million for these combined  sales which  consisted of $186.6 million of proceeds
for the equity of such  entities,  $21.8  million for  reimbursement  of certain
intercompany  cash  advances,  and  the  assumption  of such  subsidiaries'  net
liabilities,  exclusive  of oil  and  gas  properties,  of  $29.1  million.  The
accompanying  Consolidated  Statement of Operations  for the year ended December
31, 1996 includes a pre-tax gain of $83.3 million from the  disposition of these
subsidiaries  (net of  transaction  expenses of $8.7  million) and an income tax
provision of $16 million.  The income tax provision for the year ended  December
31,  1996,  includes  $6.4  million  related to the  write-off  of  certain  net
operating loss carryforwards which, with the sale of the income producing assets
in the Australian tax jurisdiction, will not be utilized in the future.

NOTE M.     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

      In  accordance  with  SFAS  121,  the  Company  reviews  its  oil  and gas
properties for impairment  whenever events and circumstances  indicate a decline
in the  recoverability  of the  carrying  value  of the  Company's  oil  and gas
properties.  Based upon a decline in the Company's  outlook for future commodity
prices during December 1997 and January 1998, the Company estimated the expected
future cash flows of its oil and gas  properties  and compared  such future cash
flows to the carrying  amount of the oil and gas  properties to determine if the
carrying amount is  recoverable.  For those oil and gas properties for which the
carrying  amount  exceeded the estimated  future cash flows,  an impairment  was
determined  to exist;  therefore,  the Company  adjusted the carrying  amount of
those oil and gas  properties to their fair value as  determined by  discounting
their expected future cash flows at a discount rate  commensurate with the risks
involved in the industry.  As a result,  the Company  recognized noncash pre-tax
charges of $1.4  billion  ($863  million  after tax)  related to its oil and gas
properties during 1997. In 1995, the Company recognized a noncash pre-tax charge
of $129.7 million ($84.3 million after tax) after performing a similar review of
its oil and gas properties. The Company also recognized a noncash pre-tax charge
of $748,000 ($486,000 after tax) related to a natural gas processing facility in
1995.

NOTE N.     Income Taxes

      Income tax provision  (benefit) and amounts  separately  allocated were as
follows:
                                                      Year ended December 31,
                                               --------------------------------
                                                  1997       1996        1995
                                               ---------   --------   ---------
                                                        (in thousands)
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item....  $(500,300)  $ 60,100   $(45,900)
  Extraordinary gain (loss)..................     (7,200)       -        2,300
  Benefit arising from exercise of stock
    options..................................     (2,900)    (2,200)      (600)
  Change in cumulative translation
    adjustment...............................        -          -         (550)
                                                --------    -------    -------

                                               $(510,400)  $ 57,900   $(44,750)
                                                ========    =======    =======

                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


      Income  tax  provision  (benefit)  attributable  to income  (loss)  before
extraordinary item consists of the following:

                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                         ------------------------------------
                                           1997          1996         1995
                                         ----------    ---------    ---------
                                                     (in thousands)
     Current:
       U.S. federal..................    $     900    $     300    $  (1,000)
       State and local...............          100          -           -
                                         ---------     --------     --------
                                             1,000          300       (1,000)
                                         ---------     --------     --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal..................     (470,000)      51,700      (35,500)
       State and local...............      (28,500)         -           -
       Foreign.......................       (2,800)       8,100       (9,400)
                                         ---------     --------     --------
                                          (501,300)      59,800      (44,900)
                                         ---------     --------     --------
     Total...........................   $ (500,300)   $  60,100    $ (45,900)
                                         =========     ========     ========

Income  (loss)  before  income  taxes and  extraordinary  item  consists  of the
following:

                                               Year ended December 31,
                                        -----------------------------------
                                            1997        1996         1995
                                        -----------   ---------   ---------
                                                   (in thousands)
  Income (loss) before income taxes
    and extraordinary item:
      U.S. federal..................... $(1,369,582)  $ 121,680   $(118,871)
      Foreign..........................      (7,981)     78,668     (31,136)
                                         ----------    --------    --------

                                        $(1,377,563)  $ 200,348   $(150,007)
                                         ==========    ========    ========

      Reconciliations  of the  U.S.  federal  statutory  rate  to the  Company's
effective rate for income (loss) before extraordinary item are as follows:

                                                      1997     1996      1995
                                                    -------   -------   ------
 U.S. federal statutory tax rate...................  (35.0%)    35.0%    (35.0%)
 Disposition of foreign subsidiaries...............     -       (6.9%)      -
 Amortization of foreign permanent differences.....     -         -        3.1%
 State income tax, net of federal income tax
   benefit.........................................   (1.3%)      -         -
 Rate differential on foreign operations...........     -         .4%      (.1%)
 Other.............................................     -        1.5%      1.4%
                                                    -------   -------   -------
 Consolidated effective tax rate...................  (36.3%)    30.0%    (30.6%)
                                                    =======   =======   =======

      The tax effects of  temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
portions  of the  deferred  tax  assets and  deferred  tax  liabilities  were as
follows:
                                                            December 31,
                                                       ---------------------
                                                          1997        1996
                                                       ---------    --------
                                                           (in thousands)
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards...................  $ 184,438    $ 23,704
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.......      4,903       4,005
  Other..............................................     57,248       7,716
                                                        --------     -------
    Total gross deferred tax assets..................    246,589      35,425
                                                        --------     -------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to
    differences in basis and depletion and the
    deduction of intangible drilling costs for
    tax purposes.....................................    206,721      88,790
  Other..............................................     35,168          35
                                                        --------     -------
    Total gross deferred tax liabilities.............    241,889      88,825
                                                        --------     -------

    Net deferred tax asset (liability)...............  $   4,700    $(53,400)
                                                        ========     =======

                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995



      A valuation  allowance  is  provided  when it is more likely than not that
some  portion  of the  deferred  tax  assets  will  not be  realized.  Based  on
expectations  for the  future  and the  availability  of  certain  tax  planning
strategies  that would generate  taxable income to realize the net tax benefits,
if  implemented,  management has  determined  that taxable income of the Company
will more likely than not be sufficient to fully utilize available carryforwards
prior to their ultimate expiration.

      At December 31, 1997,  the Company had net  operating  loss  carryforwards
("NOLs")  for U.S.  federal  income  tax  purposes  of $527  million,  which are
available to offset future regular taxable  income,  if any.  Additionally,  the
Company has  alternative  minimum tax net  operating  loss  carryforwards  ("AMT
NOLs") of $460 million, which are available to reduce future alternative minimum
taxable income, if any. These carryforwards expire as follows:

         Expiration Date                       NOLs       AMT NOLs
         ---------------                    ---------    ---------
                                                (in thousands)

         December 31, 2002................  $   2,554    $   3,463
         December 31, 2003................        838          -
         December 31, 2005................     11,049       10,762
         December 31, 2006................     26,420        8,451
         December 31, 2007................    105,085      102,069
         December 31, 2008................    112,508      106,558
         December 31, 2009................    129,357      101,978
         December 31, 2010................    116,025      103,699
         December 31, 2012................     23,129       23,013
                                            ---------    ---------
                                            $ 526,965    $ 459,993
                                            =========    =========

      As discussed in Note B, certain  subsidiaries  that are  consolidated  for
financial  reporting  purposes are not eligible to be included in the  Company's
consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, and separate  provisions for income
taxes  have been  determined  for these  entities  or groups of  entities.  As a
result,  the NOLs and AMT NOLs from certain of these subsidiaries are subject to
various utilization  limitations.  In total,  approximately $80.1 million of the
NOLs and $60.4  million of the AMT NOLs are limited in use to specific  entities
or groups of entities. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code provides another
limitation  to $303.3  million of the  Company's  total  NOLs and AMT NOLs.  The
Company  believes  the  utilization  of $260  million  of its  NOLs and AMT NOLs
subject to the  Section  382  limitation  are  limited in each  taxable  year to
approximately  $20 million and the  remaining  $43.3 million of its NOLs and AMT
NOLs subject to the Section 382  limitation  are limited in each taxable year to
approximately $10 million.

      The tax  returns  and the amount of taxable  income or loss are subject to
examination by U.S. federal,  state and foreign taxing authorities.  Current and
estimated tax payments of $2.7 million,  $970,000 and $93,000 were made in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.

NOTE O.     Operations by Geographic Area

      The  Company  operates  in  one  industry  segment.  As a  result  of  the
acquisition of Chauvco,  the Company had identifiable  assets of $2.7 billion in
the United  States,  $725  million in Canada and $495  million in  Argentina  at
December 31, 1997.  During 1997 and 1996,  the Company did not have  significant
operations in geographic areas other than the United States.  Information  about
the  Company's  operations  for the year ended  December  31, 1995 by  different
geographic areas is shown below.

                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


                                               Year ended December 31,
                                         -------------------------------------
                                                         1995
                                         -------------------------------------
                                                       Australia
                                            United     and Other
                                            States      Foreign       Total
                                         -----------   ----------   ---------
                                                     (in thousands)

Operating revenue.....................   $   439,957   $   45,805   $ 485,762
Loss before income taxes and
   extraordinary item.................   $  (118,871)  $  (31,136)  $ (150,007)
Identifiable assets...................   $ 1,120,738   $  198,491   $1,319,229

NOTE P.     Earnings per Share

      In  accordance  with the  requirements  of SFAS 128, the  following  table
provides a  reconciliation  between basic and diluted earnings per share for the
year ended December 31, 1996.  For 1997 and 1995 the  computation of diluted net
loss per share was antidilutive;  therefore,  the amounts reported for basic and
diluted net loss per share were the same.

                                                                      Per Share
                                               Income      Shares      Amount
                                             ----------    -------    ---------
                                                       (in thousands)
Basic EPS:
   Income available to common stockholders   $  140,248     35,475    $    3.95
                                                                       ========
Effect of Dilutive Securities:
   Options/restricted stock                         -          394
   Preferred shares                               7,683      6,714
                                               --------    -------
Diluted EPS:
   Income available to common stockholders
     plus assumed conversions                $  147,931     42,583    $    3.47
                                              =========    =======     ========

NOTE Q.     Pioneer USA

      Pioneer USA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that has fully and
unconditionally  guaranteed  certain debt  securities of the Company (see Note E
above).  The  Company  has  not  prepared   financial   statements  and  related
disclosures  for Pioneer USA under  separate  cover  because  management  of the
Company has determined  that such  information is not material to investors.  In
accordance  with  practices  accepted  by  the  U.S.   Securities  and  Exchange
Commission ("SEC"), the Company has prepared Consolidating  Financial Statements
in order to quantify  the assets of Pioneer USA as a subsidiary  guarantor.  The
following  Consolidating Balance Sheet and Consolidating Statement of Operations
present  financial  information  for Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company as the
Parent on a stand-alone  basis (carrying any  investments in subsidiaries  under
the equity method), financial information for Pioneer USA on a stand-alone basis
(carrying any investment in non-guarantor subsidiaries under the equity method),
financial  information  for the  non-guarantor  subsidiaries of the Company on a
consolidated  basis,  the  consolidation  and elimination  entries  necessary to
arrive at the  information  for the  Company on a  consolidated  basis,  and the
financial  information for the Company on a consolidated  basis.  Pioneer USA is
not restricted from making distributions to the Company.

      Pioneer USA's guarantees of the Company's debt securities were executed as
a result of the merger with Mesa in August 1997.  Consequently,  a Consolidating
Balance  Sheet at December 31, 1996 and  Consolidating  Statements of Operations
for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 have not been presented.

                                       65

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


                           CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                              At December 31, 1997

                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Pioneer
                                            Natural
                                           Resources                     Non-
                                            Company       Pioneer      Guarantor                       The
                                            (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                           ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.............   $       41   $    49,033   $    22,639    $              $   71,713
  Restricted cash.......................          -           1,695           -                          1,695
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net..........................            5        56,424        19,003                       75,432
    Oil and gas sales...................          -          82,145        34,355                      116,500
  Intercompany notes receivable.........    2,088,082    (1,673,443)     (414,639)                         -
  Inventories...........................          -          11,677         1,899                       13,576
  Deferred income taxes.................       16,700           -             200                       16,900
  Other current assets..................          -           9,293         3,079                       12,372
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
      Total current assets..............    2,104,828    (1,463,176)    (333,464)                      308,188
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
    successful efforts method of
    accounting:
      Proved properties.................          -       2,453,750     1,122,221                    3,575,971
      Unproved properties...............          -          98,664       446,410                      545,074
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation
    and amortization....................          -        (504,628)     (100,575)                    (605,203)
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
                                                  -       2,047,786     1,468,056                    3,515,842
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
Other property and equipment, net.......          -          26,096        17,921                       44,017
Other assets, net.......................        4,705        68,715        28,098       (22,975)        78,543
Investment in subsidiaries..............      645,113       284,046           -        (929,159)           -
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
                                           $2,754,646   $   963,467   $ 1,180,611                   $3,946,590
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    =========


                                       LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt.    $      -     $       538   $    28,228    $  (22,975)    $    5,791
  Undistributed unit purchases.........           -           1,695           -                          1,695
  Accounts payable:
    Trade .............................           663       113,432        62,602                      176,697
    Affiliates.........................            90         9,904           -                          9,994
  Other current liabilities............         5,771        59,953         1,651                       67,375
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
      Total current liabilities........         6,524       185,522        92,481                      261,552
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
Long-term debt, less current maturities     1,700,500           565       242,653                    1,943,718
Other noncurrent liabilities...........           -         140,668        39,607                      180,275
Deferred income taxes..................      (216,253)          -         228,453                       12,200
Stockholders' equity:
  GP Capital...........................           -             -               4            (4)           -
  LP Capital...........................           -             -             397          (397)           -
  Preferred stock......................           -             -             -                            -
  Common stock.........................           901             1           110            (2)         1,010
  Additional paid-in capital...........     2,058,935     2,049,072       739,518    (2,487,533)     2,359,992
  Treasury stock, at cost..............           (21)          -             -                            (21)
  Unearned compensation................           -         (16,196)          -                        (16,196)
  Retained deficit.....................      (795,940)   (1,396,165)     (162,612)    1,558,777       (795,940)
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
      Total stockholders' equity.......     1,263,875       636,712       577,417                    1,548,845

Commitments and contingencies               ---------    ----------    ----------                    ---------
                                           $2,754,646   $   963,467   $ 1,180,611                   $3,946,590
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    =========
</TABLE>

                                       66

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


                      CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1997
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Pioneer
                                   Natural
                                  Resources                    Non-       Consolidated
                                   Company      Pioneer      Guarantor        Income                        The
                                   (Parent)       USA       Subsidiaries   Tax Benefit   Eliminations     Company
                                 ----------   -----------   ------------   -----------   ------------   -----------
<S>                              <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas..................  $       -    $   453,771    $   83,011     $             $             $   536,782
  Interest and other...........          -          5,357           873                        (1,952)        4,278
  Gain on disposition of assets,
    net........................          -          6,062          (402)                        (691)        4,969
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
                                         -        465,190        83,482                                     546,029
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.......          -        128,644        15,526                                     144,170
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization...............          -        166,495        45,940                                     212,435
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties and natural gas
    processing facilities......          -      1,220,920       135,470                                   1,356,390
  Exploration and abandonments.          -         67,679         9,481                                      77,160
  General and administrative...          613       44,766         3,384                                      48,763
  Interest.....................        5,910       67,969         5,623                       (1,952)       77,550
  Equity loss from subsidiary..    1,407,844      124,874           -                     (1,532,718)          -
  Other........................          -          7,065            59                                       7,124
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
                                   1,414,367    1,828,412       215,483                                   1,923,592
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
Loss before income taxes and
  extraordinary item...........   (1,414,367)  (1,363,222)     (132,001)                                 (1,377,563)
Income tax benefit.............          -            -             -           500,300                     500,300
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
Loss before extraordinary item.   (1,414,367)  (1,363,222)     (132,001)                                   (877,263)
Extraordinary item - loss on
  early extinguishment of debt,
  net of tax...................          -        (13,408)          -                                       (13,408)
                                  ----------   ----------     ---------                                  ----------
    Net loss...................  $(1,414,367) $(1,376,630)   $ (132,001)                                $  (890,671)
                                  ==========   ==========     =========                                  ==========
</TABLE>

                                       67

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995



NOTE R.     Subsequent Events

       Senior note  issuance.  During  January 1998,  the Company  completed the
issuance of the  following  two series of senior notes for total net proceeds of
$593  million.  The proceeds  were used  primarily to repay the  Company's  bank
indebtedness.

       6.5% senior notes due 2008. $350 million aggregate  principal amount 6.5%
senior notes dated January 13, 1998, due January 15, 2008.  Interest on the 6.5%
senior  notes is payable  semi-annually  on January 15 and July 15 of each year,
commencing July 15, 1998.

       7.2% senior notes due 2028. $250 million aggregate  principal amount 7.2%
senior  notes dated  January 13, 1998,  due July 15, 2028.  Interest on the 7.2%
senior  notes is payable  semi-annually  on January 15 and July 15 of each year,
commencing July 15, 1998.

       Both senior note  issuances  are  governed  by an  Indenture  between the
Company  and The Bank of New York dated  January  13,  1998.  Both  senior  note
issuances are general  unsecured  obligations of the Company  ranking equally in
right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Company and
are  senior  in  right  of  payment  to all  existing  and  future  subordinated
indebtedness of the Company. In addition,  the Company is a holding company that
conducts  all its  operations  through  subsidiaries,  and the senior  notes are
structurally  subordinated to all obligations of its  subsidiaries.  Pioneer USA
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed both senior note issuances.

       Reorganization. The Company plans to sell certain nonstrategic fields for
estimated proceeds of $375 to $550 million during the latter part of 1998. These
domestic fields generate only 15% of the Company's total cash flow. The proceeds
will be used to reduce the Company's  outstanding  indebtedness  and to fund the
Company's  capital  expenditures  program.   Coincidentally  with  the  property
divestiture  program, the Company has announced its intentions to reorganize its
operations by combining the six domestic operating regions created by the merger
between  Parker & Parsley and Mesa into three  geographic  regions:  the Permian
Basin region,  the  MidContinent  region and the onshore and offshore Gulf Coast
region. The Company anticipates that it will incur nonrecurring  expenditures of
approximately $20 million during 1998 as a result of this reorganization.


                                       68

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


Capitalized Costs
                                                               December 31,
                                                       ------------------------
                                                          1997          1996
                                                       ----------    ----------
                                                             (in thousands)
  Oil and Gas Properties:
    Proved                                             $3,575,971    $1,419,051
    Unproved                                              545,074         7,331
                                                        ---------     ---------
                                                        4,121,045     1,426,382
    Less accumulated depletion                           (605,203)     (424,594)
                                                        ---------     ---------
    Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties   $3,515,842    $1,001,788
                                                        =========     =========


Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas
 Producing Activities
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Property
                                   Acquisition Costs                                   Total
                                -----------------------   Exploration   Development    Costs
                                  Proved      Unproved       Costs         Costs      Incurred
                                ----------   ----------   -----------   -----------   ----------
                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                             <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>  
Year ended December 31, 1997:
  United States                 $2,623,993   $   91,373    $  88,710     $ 243,119    $3,047,195
  Argentina                        430,607      252,343        1,822         3,927       688,699
  Canada                           287,787      194,067       -             -            481,854
  Other foreign (a)                    -            332        5,442           -           5,774
                                 ---------    ---------     --------      --------     ---------
    Total costs incurred        $3,342,387   $  538,115    $  95,974     $ 247,046    $4,223,522
                                 =========    =========     ========      ========     =========
Year ended December 31, 1996:
  United States                 $   15,699   $    5,255    $  31,568     $ 168,553    $  221,075
  Foreign (b)                           18          -          7,240         4,659        11,917
                                 ---------    ---------     --------      --------     ---------
    Total costs incurred        $   15,717   $    5,255    $  38,808     $ 173,212    $  232,992
                                 =========    =========     ========      ========     =========
Year ended December 31, 1995:
  United States                 $   46,796   $      -      $   8,062     $ 130,461    $  185,319
  Australia and Other Foreign        1,698          -         21,129        10,877        33,704
                                 ---------    ---------     --------      --------     ---------
    Total costs incurred        $   48,494   $      -      $  29,191     $ 141,338    $  219,023
                                 =========    =========     ========      ========     =========
</TABLE>
- ---------------

(a)  Primarily relates to an unsuccessful well in Guatemala.

(b)  Includes $7.4 million of expenditures  related to the Company's  Australian
     properties  prior  to their  sale in 1996.  The  remainder  relates  to the
     Company's interests in Argentine properties.

                                       69

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

Results of Operations
                                              For the year ended December 31,
                                          -------------------------------------
                                              1997         1996         1995
                                          -----------   ----------   ----------
                                                      (in thousands)
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas revenues                      $   533,865   $  385,198   $  329,915
Production costs                             (143,332)    (106,898)    (118,487)
Exploration and abandonments                  (31,909)      (9,222)      (6,795)
Geological and geophysical                    (37,987)      (7,042)      (2,302)
Depletion                                    (203,160)     (98,655)    (125,165)
Impairment of oil and gas properties       (1,356,390)        -       (129,745)
                                           -----------   ---------    ---------
                                           (1,238,913)     163,381      (52,579)
Income tax benefit (provision) (a)            458,397      (57,183)      18,403
                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
Results of operations for oil and gas
  producing activities                    $  (780,516)  $  106,198   $  (34,176)
                                           ==========    =========    =========
AUSTRALIA AND OTHER FOREIGN (b)
Oil and gas revenues                      $       -     $   10,591   $   45,805
Production costs                                  -         (3,300)     (12,418)
Exploration and abandonments                   (5,442)         (15)      (6,779)
Geological and geophysical                        -         (1,420)      (6,874)
Depletion                                         -         (3,917)     (20,303)
                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
                                               (5,442)       1,939         (569)
Income tax benefit (provision) (a)              1,905         (698)         205
                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
Results of operations for oil and gas
  producing activities                    $    (3,537)  $    1,241   $     (364)
                                           ==========    =========    =========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas revenues                      $     2,917   $    1,142   $      -
Production costs                                 (838)        (136)         -
Exploration and abandonments                     (252)      (3,416)      (2,857)
Geological and geophysical                     (1,570)        (592)      (1,945)
Depletion                                      (1,290)        (231)         -
                                           ----------    ---------          -
                                               (1,033)      (3,233)      (4,802)
Income tax benefit (a)                            341        1,067        1,585
                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
Results of operations for oil and gas
  producing activities                    $      (692)  $   (2,166)  $   (3,217)
                                           ==========    =========    =========
TOTAL
Oil and gas revenues                      $   536,782   $  396,931   $  375,720
Production costs                             (144,170)    (110,334)    (130,905)
Exploration and abandonments                  (37,603)     (12,653)     (16,431)
Geological and geophysical                    (39,557)      (9,054)     (11,121)
Depletion                                    (204,450)    (102,803)    (145,468)
Impairment of oil and gas properties       (1,356,390)        -        (129,745)
                                           -----------         ---    ---------
                                           (1,245,388)     162,087      (57,950)
Income tax benefit (provision) (a)            460,643      (56,814)      20,193
                                           ----------      -------    ---------
Results of operations for oil and gas
  producing activities                    $  (784,745)  $  105,273   $  (37,757)
                                           ==========      =======    =========
- ---------------
(a) The income tax benefit (provision) is calculated using the current statutory
    tax  rate  for  each  jurisdiction.

(b) 1997  amounts  primarily relate to an unsuccessful well in Guatemala and the
    1996 and 1995 amounts relate to the Company's Australian properties prior to
    their divestiture in March 1996.

                                       70

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


Reserve Quantity Information

      The  estimates of the  Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves,  which are
located  principally in the United States,  Argentina and Canada are prepared by
the Company's engineers with respect to all properties other than Canada,  which
were  prepared  by Martin  Petroleum &  Associates  and  Gilbert  Laustsen  Jung
Associates. Reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines established by
the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which require that reserve
estimates be prepared under existing  economic and operating  conditions with no
provision for price and cost escalations except by contractual arrangements. The
reserve  estimates  for 1997 utilize an oil price of $16.89 per Bbl  (reflecting
adjustments  for oil quality and gathering  and  transportation  costs),  an NGL
price of $12.79 per Bbl and a gas price of $2.06 per Mcf (reflecting adjustments
for BTU content,  gathering  and  transportation  costs and gas  processing  and
shrinkage).

      Oil  and  gas  reserve   quantity   estimates   are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.


                                       71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
                                              1997                        1996                      1995
                                 ---------------------------   -------------------------  -------------------------
                                    Oil                        Oil                         Oil
                                 & NGLs       Gas             & NGLs      Gas             & NGLs     Gas
Total Proved Reserves:            (Bbls)     (Mcf)     BOE    (Bbls)     (Mcf)     BOE    (Bbls)    (Mcf)     BOE
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
<S>                              <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1               162,836    828,268  300,881  134,891   778,609  264,659  131,736  723,078  252,249
Revisions of previous estimates   70,063   (100,755)  53,271   42,614   151,095   67,797   27,697  142,516   51,449
Purchases of minerals-in-place   121,286  1,147,921  312,606      300    11,494    2,216    4,309   82,713   18,094
New discoveries and extensions     1,109      7,659    2,385      760    17,607    3,694      761    6,015    1,764
Production                       (17,737)  (104,868) (35,215) (10,872)  (73,924) (23,193) (11,328) (76,669) (24,106)
Sales of minerals-in-place        (8,241)   (59,095) (18,090)  (4,857)  (56,613) (14,292) (18,284) (99,044) (34,791)
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Balance, December 31             329,316  1,719,130  615,838  162,836   828,268  300,881  134,891  778,609  264,659

CANADA
Balance, January 1                   -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Revisions of previous estimates      -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Purchases of minerals-in-place    22,796    207,868   57,441      -         -        -        -        -        -
New discoveries and extensions       -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Production                           -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Sales of minerals-in-place           -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Balance, December 31              22,796    207,868   57,441      -         -        -        -        -        -

AUSTRALIA
Balance, January 1                   -          -        -     12,443   118,297   32,159   12,805  104,430   30,210
Revisions of previous estimates      -          -        -        -         -        -      1,212   22,493    4,961
Purchases of minerals-in-place       -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
New discoveries and extensions       -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Production                           -          -        -       (349)   (1,927)    (669)  (1,574)  (8,626)  (3,012)
Sales of minerals-in-place           -          -        -    (12,094) (116,370) (31,490)     -        -        -
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Balance, December 31                 -          -        -        -         -        -     12,443  118,297   32,159

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1                 1,105      1,108    1,290      -         -        -        -        -        -
Revisions of previous estimates     (259)    (1,108)    (444)     -         -        -        -        -        -
Purchases of minerals-in-place    30,914    340,392   87,646      -         -        -        -        -        -
New discoveries and extensions       -          -        -      1,159     1,108    1,344      -        -        -
Production                          (148)       -       (148)     (54)      -        (54)     -        -        -
Sales of minerals-in-place           -          -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Balance, December 31              31,612    340,392   88,344    1,105     1,108    1,290      -        -        -

TOTAL
Balance, January 1               163,941    829,376  302,171  147,334   896,906  296,818  144,541  827,508  282,459
Revisions of previous estimates   69,804   (101,863)  52,827   42,614   151,095   67,797   28,909  165,009   56,410
Purchases of minerals-in-place   174,996  1,696,181  457,693      300    11,494    2,216    4,309   82,713   18,094
New discoveries and extensions     1,109      7,659    2,385    1,919    18,715    5,038      761    6,015    1,764
Production                       (17,885)  (104,868) (35,363) (11,275)  (75,851) (23,916) (12,902) (85,295) (27,118)
Sales of minerals-in-place        (8,241)   (59,095) (18,090) (16,951) (172,983) (45,782) (18,284) (99,044) (34,791)
                                 -------  ---------  -------  -------  --------  -------  -------  -------  -------
Balance, December 31             383,724  2,267,390  761,623  163,941   829,376  302,171  147,334  896,906  296,818
                                 =======  =========  =======  =======  ========  =======  =======  =======  =======

Proved Developed Reserves:
  January 1                      126,370    660,174  236,399  108,920   646,066  216,598  107,068  622,775  210,864
                                 =======  =========  =======  =======  ========  =======  =======  =======  =======
  December 31                    329,920  1,956,658  656,030  126,370   660,174  236,399  108,920  646,066  216,598
                                 =======  =========  =======  =======  ========  =======  =======  =======  =======
</TABLE>

                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

      The standardized  measure of discounted  future net cash flows is computed
by applying year-end prices of oil and gas (with  consideration of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate of 10% per  year to  reflect  the  estimated
timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by comparing
discounted  future  cash flows to the tax basis of oil and gas  properties  plus
available  carryforwards  and credits and  applying the current tax rates to the
difference.

      Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like those  shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.


                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          For the year ended December 31,
                                                   -------------------------------------------
                                                       1997            1996            1995
                                                   -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                <C>             <C>             <C>
UNITED STATES Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows                             $ 8,936,044     $ 7,280,710     $ 4,134,327
   Future production costs                          (3,185,357)     (2,325,274)     (1,618,191)
   Future development costs                           (325,659)       (196,410)       (164,794)
   Future income tax expense                          (860,632)     (1,385,399)       (523,755)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                     4,564,396       3,373,627       1,827,587
   10% annual discount factor                       (2,067,371)     (1,574,103)       (727,743)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
   Standardized measure of discounted future
     net cash flows                                $ 2,497,025     $ 1,799,524     $ 1,099,844
                                                    ==========      ==========      ==========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows                             $   912,688     $    28,211     $       -
   Future production costs                            (168,105)         (8,099)            -
   Future development costs                           (137,060)         (4,456)            -
   Future income tax expense                           (60,069)            -               -
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                       547,454          15,656             -
   10% annual discount factor                         (201,732)         (7,615)            -
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
   Standardized measure of discounted future
     net cash flows                                $   345,722     $     8,041     $       -
                                                    ==========      ==========      ==========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows                             $   662,104     $       -       $       -
   Future production costs                            (223,325)            -               -
   Future development costs                            (48,323)            -               -
   Future income tax expense                           (79,044)            -               -
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                       311,412             -               -
   10% annual discount factor                         (102,395)            -               -
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
   Standardized measure of discounted future
     net cash flows                                $   209,017     $       -       $       -
                                                    ==========      ==========      ==========
AUSTRALIA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows                             $       -       $       -       $   428,191
   Future production costs                                 -               -          (136,681)
   Future development costs                                -               -           (47,085)
   Future income tax expense                               -               -           (69,649)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                           -               -           174,776
   10% annual discount factor                              -               -           (70,831)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
   Standardized measure of discounted future
     net cash flows                                $       -       $       -       $   103,945
                                                    ==========      ==========      ==========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows                             $10,510,836     $ 7,308,921     $ 4,562,518
   Future production costs                          (3,576,787)     (2,333,373)     (1,754,872)
   Future development costs                           (511,042)       (200,866)       (211,879)
   Future income tax expense                          (999,745)     (1,385,399)       (593,404)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                     5,423,262       3,389,283       2,002,363
   10% annual discount factor                       (2,371,498)     (1,581,718)       (798,574)
                                                    ----------      ----------      ----------
   Standardized measure of discounted future
     net cash flows                                $ 3,051,764     $ 1,807,565     $ 1,203,789
                                                    ==========      ==========      ==========
</TABLE>
                                       74

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year ended December 31,
                                                    ---------------------------------------
                                                        1997          1996           1995
                                                    -----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>            <C>           <C>
   Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
     Oil and gas sales, net of production costs     $  (392,612)   $ (286,597)   $ (244,815)
     Net changes in prices and production costs      (1,034,678)      866,196       221,581
     Extensions and discoveries                          19,993        53,314        12,321
     Sales of minerals-in-place                        (126,879)     (185,859)     (139,250)
     Purchases of minerals-in-place                   1,880,570        20,606        53,628
     Revisions of estimated future development
        costs                                           (15,158)      (73,587)      (47,459)
     Revisions of previous quantity estimates and
        reserves added by development drilling          240,375       569,529       288,445
     Accretion of discount                              234,537       123,174       105,891
     Changes in production rates, timing and other      (99,753)     (106,896)       (3,496)
                                                     ----------     ---------     ---------
     Change in present value of future net revenues     706,395       979,880       246,846
     Net change in present value of future income
        taxes                                           537,804      (376,104)     (114,714)
                                                     ----------     ---------     ---------
                                                      1,244,199       603,776       132,132
     Balance, beginning of year                       1,807,565     1,203,789     1,071,657
                                                     ----------     ---------     ---------
     Balance, end of year                           $ 3,051,764    $1,807,565    $1,203,789
                                                     ==========     =========     =========
</TABLE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Results
                                                       Quarter
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                       First     Second     Third       Fourth
                                     --------   --------   --------   ---------
                                        (in thousands, except per share data)
1997
      Operating revenues             $103,779   $ 94,847   $150,354   $ 187,802
      Total revenues                  106,707     97,389    151,278     190,655
      Costs and expenses               77,994     85,576    168,326   1,591,696
      Income (loss) before
        extraordinary item             18,613      7,413    (11,048)   (892,241)
      Net income (loss)                18,613      7,413    (12,566)   (904,131)
      Income (loss) before
        extraordinary item per share      .53        .21       (.18)     (11.43)
      Net income (loss) per share         .53        .21       (.21)     (11.58)
1996
      Operating revenues             $103,444   $ 99,674   $ 97,019   $ 120,608
      Total revenues                  118,282    182,508    111,230     123,323
      Costs and expenses               91,272     82,952     74,765      86,006
      Net income                       14,710     80,156     20,965      24,417
      Net income per share                .41       2.24        .59         .69


                                       75

<PAGE>



ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

At a meeting  held on December 5, 1997,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company
approved  the  engagement  of  Ernst & Young  LLP as the  Company's  independent
auditors  for the fiscal  year ending  December  31, 1998 to replace the firm of
KPMG Peat  Marwick  LLP,  who were  dismissed  as auditors of the Company  after
completing  the audit of the Company for the fiscal  year  ending  December  31,
1997.  The audit  committee  of the Board of  Directors  approved  the change in
auditors  on  December  5,  1997,  subject  to  ratification  by  the  Company's
stockholders.  The audit of the Company for the fiscal year ended  December  31,
1997 was completed on February 13, 1998.

The reports of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP on the Company's  financial  statements for
the past two fiscal years did not contain an adverse  opinion or a disclaimer of
opinion and were not qualified or modified as to  uncertainty,  audit scope,  or
accounting principles.

In connection with the audits of the Company's financial  statements for each of
the  two  fiscal  years  ended  December  31,  1997  and  1996,  there  were  no
disagreements with KPMG Peat Marwick LLP on any matters of accounting principles
or practices,  financial statement disclosure,  or auditing scope and procedures
which,  if not resolved to the  satisfaction of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP would have
caused KPMG Peat Marwick LLP to make reference to the matter in their report.

The Company has received  from KPMG Peat  Marwick LLP a letter  addressed to the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  stating that KPMG Peat Marwick LLP agrees
with the above  statements.  A copy of the letter is included as Exhibit 16.1 to
this Form 10-K.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The  information  required  in  response  to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held in 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The  information  required  in  response  to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held in 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
              MANAGEMENT

      The  information  required  in  response  to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held in 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The  information  required  in  response  to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held in 1998 and is incorporated herein by reference.


                                       76

<PAGE>



                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included
in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996
       Consolidated  Statements of Operations  for the years ended  December 31,
       1997, 1996 and 1995 Consolidated  Statements of Stockholders'  Equity for
       the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 Consolidated  Statements
       of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1997,  1996 and 1995 Notes
       to Consolidated Financial Statements Unaudited Supplementary Information

     All  other  statements  and  schedules  for which  provision is made in the
applicable accounting  regulations of the SEC have been omitted because they are
not required under related instructions or are inapplicable,  or the information
is shown in the financial statements and related notes.

  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                                 Description

2.1  - Amended and Restated  Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as of April 6,
     1997, by and among Mesa,  Mesa Operating Co. ("MOC"),  MXP  Reincorporation
     Corp. and Parker & Parsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
     Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4,  dated  June  27,  1997,
     Registration No. 333-26951).

3.1  -  Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  the  Company
     (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the  Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333- 26951).

3.2  - Restated Bylaws of the Company  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
     to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
     Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3  -  Certificate  of   Designations   of  Special   Preferred   Voting  Stock
     (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the  Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-3,  Registration No.  333-42315,  filed with the SEC on
     December 17, 1997).

3.4  - Terms and Conditions of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by reference to
     Annex F to the Definitive Joint Management  Information  Circular and Proxy
     Statement of the Company and Chauvco,  File No. 001- 13245,  filed with the
     SEC on November 17, 1997).

4.1  - Form of  Certificate  of Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share,  of the
     Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,  Registration No.
     333-26951).

4.2  - Form of Certificate of Special  Preferred  Voting Stock  (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File
     No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3  - Form of Certificate of Exchangeable Shares  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  4.2  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       77

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                 Description

9.1  - Shareholder  Agreement,  dated as of April 6, 1997,  between Mesa,  Boone
     Pickens and Parker & Parsley  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to
     Mesa's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 8, 1997).

9.2  -  Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of April 6,  1997,  between  DNR-Mesa
     Holdings,  L.P. ("DNR") and Mesa  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2
     to Mesa's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 8, 1997).

9.3  - Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18, 1997, among
     the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada) Ltd. ("Pioneer Canada") and
     Montreal Trust Company of Canada, as Trustee  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  2.4 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001-
     13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

9.4  - Amended and  Restated  Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3,
     1997,  by and  between the Company  and Guy J.  Turcotte  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 2.6 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
     S-3, Registration No. 333-42315, filed with the SEC on December 15, 1997).

9.5  - Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3, 1997, by and among the
     Company,  Chauvco, DNR, Scott D. Sheffield and I. Jon Brumley (incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,
     File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on October 2, 1997).

9.6  - Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3, 1997, by and among the
     Company,  Trimac Corporation and Gendis Inc.  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  2.4  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on October 2, 1997).

10.1 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
     Issuer,  the Company,  as Guarantor,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as
     Trustee, relating to the 115/8% Senior Subordinated Discount Notes Due 2006
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.17 to Mesa's  Quarterly  Report on
     Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

10.2 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary  guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3 - Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary  guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.4 - Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named therein,  the Company,  and
     Harris Trust and Savings  Bank,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
     10.12 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5 - Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA (formerly MOC), a Delaware corporation, the Company, a Delaware
     corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and Harris Trust
     and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee, with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  10.13  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K,  File No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       78

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                 Description

10.6 - Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     the  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  DebtCo.,  Inc.,  a Texas
     corporation, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation, as
     Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.7 - Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  DebtCo.  Inc. (as  successor to Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
     corporation,  the  Company,  a Delaware  corporation,  and Harris Trust and
     Savings  Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  10.15  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K,  File No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.8 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
     Issuer, the Company (Mesa's successor),  as Guarantor, and Harris Trust and
     Savings Bank, as Trustee,  relating to the 105/8% Senior Subordinated Notes
     Due 2006  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 4.18 to Mesa's  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

10.9 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.10- Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.11- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named therein,  the Company,  and
     Harris Trust and Savings  Bank,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
     to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with
     the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.12- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, a Delaware  corporation,  the Company, a Delaware corporation,
     Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc., a Texas  corporation,  and Harris Trust and Savings
     Bank, an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
     to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with
     the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.13- Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer NewSub 1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     the  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,   Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc,  a  Texas
     corporation, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation, as
     Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.8
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's  Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.14- Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc. (as  successor to Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
     corporation,  the  Company,  a Delaware  corporation,  and Harris Trust and
     Savings  Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.8  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  10.9 to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       79

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                Description

10.15-  Indentures   relating  to  $50,000,000   principal   amount  of  8  1/2%
     Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due 2005 of Dorchester Master Limited
     Partnership ($2,143,000 principal amount of which were outstanding and held
     by non affiliates at December 31, 1997) and  $100,000,000  principal amount
     of 9 1/2% Senior  Notes due 2000 of Bridge Oil  (U.S.A.)  Inc.  ($2,063,000
     principal  amount of which were outstanding at December 31, 1997) have been
     omitted pursuant to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)(A)  of Regulation S-K. The Company
     hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of the  indentures to the SEC upon request
     (incorporated by reference to Parker & Parsley's Annual Report on Form 10-K
     for the period ended December 31, 1996, file No. 1-10695).

10.16-  Indenture,  dated April 12,  1995,  between  Pioneer USA  (successor  to
     Parker & Parsley), and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association),  as
     Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
     Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

10.17- First Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Parker &
     Parsley,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee,  and Pioneer  USA,  with
     respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.16 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.18- Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  USA,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.,  a Texas
     corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association,
     as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.16
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.19- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer New Sub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a
     New York banking  association,  as Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.16  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10.18 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.20- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc., as successor
     to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation,  the Company, a Delaware corporation,
     Pioneer USA, a Delaware  corporation,  and The Chase  Manhattan Bank, a New
     York  banking  association,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.16  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10.19 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001- 13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.21- Guarantee,  dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to the
     $150,000,000 in aggregate  principal  amount of 87/8% Senior Notes due 2005
     and  $150,000,000 in aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Notes due
     2007  issued  under  the  indenture   identified  above  as  Exhibit  10.16
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.22- Form of 87/8% Senior Notes Due 2005,  dated as of April 12, 1995,  in the
     aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,   together  with  Officers'
     Certificate  dated  April  12,  1995,  establishing  the terms of the 87/8%
     Senior Notes Due 2005 pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.16  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.2 to Parker &  Parsley's
     Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995, File No.
     1-10695).

10.23- Form of 8 1/4% Senior  Notes due 2007,  dated as of August 22,  1995,  in
     the aggregate  principal  amount of  $150,000,000,  together with Officers'
     Certificate  dated  August 22, 1995,  establishing  the terms of the 8 1/4%
     Senior Notes due 2007 pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.16  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  1.2 to Parker &  Parsley's
     Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 17, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

                                       80

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                 Description

10.24- Indenture,  dated  January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank of
     New York,  as Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 99.1 to the
     Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.25- First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of January 13, 1998,  among the
     Company,  Pioneer  USA, as the  Subsidiary  Guarantor,  and The Bank of New
     York, as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.24  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  99.2 to the  Company's  and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.26- Form of 6.50%  Senior  Notes  Due 2008 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.27- Form of 7.20%  Senior  Notes  Due 2028 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.28- Guarantee  (2008  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
     Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to the Company's and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.29- Guarantee  (2028  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
     Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to the Company's and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.30- Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (Primary Facility),  dated
     as of December 18, 1997, between the Company, as Borrower,  and NationsBank
     of Texas, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CIBC Inc., as Documentation Agent,
     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Documentation  Agent, and The
     Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Syndication  Agent;  and the other Co-Agents and
     lenders  named  therein  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.31- Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (364 Day Facility),  dated
     as of December 18, 1997, between the Company, as Borrower,  and NationsBank
     of Texas, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CIBC Inc., as Documentation Agent,
     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Documentation  Agent, and The
     Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Syndication  Agent;  and the other Co-Agents and
     lenders  named  therein  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.32- Credit Agreement,  dated as of December 18, 1997, among Chauvco, Canadian
     Imperial  Bank of Commerce,  as Agent,  and the other Lenders named therein
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's  Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.33- Note,  dated  December 22, 1997,  between the Company,  as Borrower,  and
     NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as Lender (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.21 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.34+ - 1991 Stock  Option Plan of Mesa  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10(v) to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period ended  December
     31, 1991).

10.35+ - 1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
     to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
     Registration No. 333-26951).

10.36+ - Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  dated  February 19, 1991
     (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Parker  &  Parsley's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

                                       81

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                Description

10.37+ - First Amendment to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated
     August 23, 1991  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to Parker &
     Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1,  dated  February 28, 1992,
     Registration No. 33-46082).

10.38+ - The Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-8,
     Registration No. 333-35087).

10.39+ - The Company's  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  (incorporated by reference
     to  Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,
     Registration No. 333-35165).

10.40+ - The Company's  Deferred  Compensation  Retirement Plan (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
     S-8, Registration No. 333- 39153).

10.41+ - Pioneer USA 401(k) Plan  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
     the  Company's   Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,  Registration  No.
     333-39249).

10.42+*- Pioneer USA Matching Plan.

10.43+ - Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included as
     part of the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as of November
     16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive Officers  identified
     on Schedule 1 setting  forth  additional  details  relating to the Parker &
     Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Parker &
     Parsley's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended  December  31,
     1995, Commission File No. 1-10695).

10.44+ - Employment Agreement,  dated as of August 21, 1996, between Mesa and I.
     Jon Brumley  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.26 to Mesa's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1996).

10.45+ - Mesa  Management  Severance  Plan,  dated  April 4, 1997,  including  a
     Schedule of  Participants  on  Schedule A for the  purpose of defining  the
     payment  of  certain   benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the  officer's
     employment  under  certain  circumstances  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 10.29 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4,  dated
     June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.46+ - Severance  Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between the Company
     and Scott D. Sheffield,  together with a schedule identifying substantially
     identical  agreements  between  the  Company  and each of the  other  named
     executive officers identified on Schedule I for the purpose of defining the
     payment  of  certain   benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the  officer's
     employment  under  certain  circumstances  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
     ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.47+ -  Indemnification  Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between  the
     Company  and  Scott D.  Sheffield,  together  with a  schedule  identifying
     substantially  identical  agreements  the Company and each of the Company's
     other  directors  and named  executive  officers  identified  on Schedule I
     (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.8 to the  Company's  Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended  September  30,  1997,  File No.
     001-13245).

10.48+ - Stock  Acquisition  Loan  Agreement  entered  into as of June 15, 1995,
     between Parker & Parsley and Scott D.  Sheffield,  together with Schedule I
     identifying   named  executive   officers  with   substantially   identical
     agreements,  providing for Parker & Parsley's loans to such officers of the
     amounts  respectively  identified on Schedule I thereto, for the purpose of
     acquiring  Parker &  Parsley's  Common  Stock,  par  value  $0.01 per share
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-3,  Registration No.  333-39381,  filed with the SEC on
     December 17, 1997).

                                       82

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                               Description

10.49- Purchase  and Sale  Agreement,  dated as of  October  22,  1997,  between
     Cometra Energy, L.P., and Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.22 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.50- Combination  Agreement,  dated September 3, 1997, between the Company and
     Chauvco  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed with the SEC on October 2,
     1997).

10.51- Plan of  Arrangement,  as  amended,  under  Section  186 of the  Business
     Corporations Act (Alberta) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.52- Support  Agreement,  dated as of December 18,  1997,  between the Company
     and  Pioneer  Canada  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  2.3 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.53- Stock  Purchase  Agreement,  dated April 26,  1996,  between Mesa and DNR
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit No. 10 to Mesa's  Current  Report on
     Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 29, 1996).

10.54- "B" Contract Production  Allocation  Agreement,  dated July 29, 1991, and
     effective as of January 1, 1991,  between  Colorado  Interstate Gas Company
     and Mesa  Operating  Limited  Partnership  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit  10(r) to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended
     December 31, 1991).

10.55- Amendment to "B" Contract  Production  Allocation  Agreement effective as
     of  January 1, 1993,  between  Colorado  Interstate  Gas  Company  and Mesa
     Operating Limited  Partnership  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24
     to Mesa's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-51909).

10.56- Amarillo Supply  Agreement  between Mesa Operating  Limited  Partnership,
     Seller, and Energas Company, a division of Atmos Energy Corporation, Buyer,
     dated effective January 2, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14
     to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended  December  31,
     1995).

10.57+ - Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees  89-B Conv.,  L.P.  (formerly
     P&P Employees  89-B GP),  dated  October 31, 1989,  among Parker & Parsley,
     Ltd.  and  the  Investor  Partners  (as  defined  therein,  which  includes
     individuals who are directors and executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),
     together with a schedule identifying  substantially identical documents and
     setting forth the material details in which those documents differ from the
     foregoing document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to Parker &
     Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4,  dated  December 31, 1990,
     Registration No. 33-38436).

10.58+ - Amendment to Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P Employees 89-B GP, dated
     May 31, 1990,  among Parker & Parsley,  Ltd. and the Investor  Partners (as
     defined  therein,   which  includes   individuals  who  are  directors  and
     executives  officers  of  Parker  &  Parsley),  together  with  a  schedule
     identifying   substantially  identical  documents  and  setting  forth  the
     material  details  in which  those  documents  differ  form  the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated December 31, 1990,  Registration
     No. 33-38436).

10.59+ - Schedule identifying  additional documents  substantially  identical to
     the Amendment to Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees 89-B GP included
     as Exhibit  10.58 and  setting  forth the  material  details in which those
     documents  differ from that document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.52 to Parker &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1,  dated
     February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).


                                       83

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                  Description

10.60+ -  Agreement  of  Partnership  of  P&P  Employees  90  Spraberry  Private
     Development GP, dated October 16, 1990, among Parker & Parsley, Ltd., James
     D. Moring,  and the General  Partners (as defined  therein,  which includes
     individuals who are directors and executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),
     and form of  Amendment  to Agreement  of  Partnership  of P&P  Employees 90
     Spraberry  Private  Development  GP,  together with a schedule  identifying
     substantially identical documents and setting forth the material details in
     which those documents differ from the foregoing  document  (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.52 to Parker & Parsley's  Registration Statement on
     Form S-4, dated December 31, 1990, Registration No. 33- 38436).

10.61+ - Amendment  to  Agreement  of  Partnership  of Parker & Parsley 90-A GP,
     dated February 19, 1991, among Parker & Parsley Development Company and the
     Investor Partners (as defined therein,  which includes  individuals who are
     directors  and  executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),  together  with a
     schedule  identifying  substantially  identical documents and setting forth
     the material  details in which those  documents  differ from the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,  Registration
     No. 33-46082).

10.62+ - Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees 91-A, GP, dated September 30,
     1991, among Parker & Parsley Development Company,  James D. Moring, and the
     General  Partners (as defined therein,  which includes  individuals who are
     directors  and  executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),  together  with a
     schedule  identifying  substantially  identical documents and setting forth
     the material  details in which those  documents  differ from the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,  Registration
     No. 33-46082).

10.63+ - Amendment  to Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P  Employees 90 Spraberry
     Private  Development  GP,  dated April 22,  1991,  among the  Partners  (as
     defined therein, which includes individuals who are directors and executive
     officers of Parker & Parsley)  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.67
     to Parker & Parsley's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1,  dated February
     28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

11.1*  - Statement of Computation of Earnings per Share

16.1*  - Change in Certifying Accountant

21.1*  - Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*  - Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

27.1*  - Financial Data Schedule
- ---------------

*  Filed herewith
+  Executive  Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
   14(c).


<PAGE>



Reports on Form 8-K

During the quarter ended December 31, 1997,  Pioneer filed the following Current
Reports on Form 8-K:

         (1)      On December 23, 1997,  the Company  filed a Current  Report on
                  Form 8-K/A dated  December 5, 1997  reporting (a) under Item 4
                  (Other  Events)  the  approval  by  the  Company's   Board  of
                  Directors  of the  engagement  of  Ernst  &  Young  LLP as the
                  Company's  independent  auditors  for the fiscal  year  ending
                  December 31, 1998 to replace the firm of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
                  and (b) under Item 7 (Financial  Statements  and Exhibits) the
                  letter from KPMG Peat Marwick LLP addressed to the  Securities
                  and Exchange  Commission in connection  with the audits of the
                  Company's financial statements.

         (2)      On December 12, 1997,  the Company  filed a Current  Report on
                  Form 8-K dated December 5, 1997 reporting  under Item 4 (Other
                  Events) the  approval by the  Company's  Board of Directors of
                  the   engagement  of  Ernst  &  Young  LLP  as  the  Company's
                  independent  auditors for the fiscal year ending  December 31,
                  1998.  Ernst & Young  LLP will  replace  the firm of KPMG Peat
                  Marwick  LLP, who will be dismissed as auditors of the Company
                  after  completing the audit of the Company for the fiscal year
                  ending December 31, 1997.

         (3)      On October 2, 1997, the Company filed a Current Report on Form
                  8-K dated  September  3, 1997  reporting  under  Item 5 (Other
                  Events) the signing of a  Combination  Agreement  with Chauvco
                  and under Item 7 (Financial  Statements and Exhibits)  various
                  documents related to such business combination.

Exhibits

      The  exhibits to this Report  required to be filed  pursuant to Item 14(c)
are listed under "Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
on Form 8-K - Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits - Exhibits" above and
in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

Financial Statement Schedules

      No financial  statement schedules are required to be filed as part of this
Report or are inapplicable.


                                       84

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date:  March 18, 1998                 By:     /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                            ----------------------------------
                                              Scott D. Sheffield, President

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

           Signature                       Title                       Date

   /s/ Scott D. Sheffield        President, Chief Executive       March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------     Officer and Director (principal
Scott D. Sheffield                executive officer)


   /s/ M.  Garrett Smith         Executive Vice President and     March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------      Chief Financial Officer
M. Garrett Smith


   /s/ Rich Dealy                Vice President and Chief         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------      Accounting Officer
Rich Dealy


   /s/ I.  Jon Brumley           Chairman of the Board            March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
I.  Jon Brumley


   /s/ James R. Baroffio         Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
James R. Baroffio


   /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner       Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


   /s/ John S.  Herrington       Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
John S.  Herrington


   /s/ Kenneth A.  Hersh         Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
Kenneth A.  Hersh


   /s/ James L. Houghton         Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
James L. Houghton


   /s/ Jerry P. Jones            Director                         March 18, 1998
- -----------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


                                       85

<PAGE>




             Signature                       Title                   Date


   /s/ T.  Boone Pickens                    Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
T.  Boone Pickens


   /s/ Richard E.  Rainwater                Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Richard E.  Rainwater


   /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.               Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


   /s/ Arthur L. Smith                      Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Arthur L. Smith


   /s/ Philip B.  Smith                     Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Philip B.  Smith


   /s/ Robert L.  Stillwell                 Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Robert L. Stillwell


   /s/ Michael D. Wortley                   Director              March 18, 1998
- --------------------------------------
Michael D. Wortley



                                       86

<PAGE>



                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit
Number                       Description 

2.1  - Amended and Restated  Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as of April 6,
     1997, by and among Mesa,  Mesa Operating Co. ("MOC"),  MXP  Reincorporation
     Corp. and Parker & Parsley (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
     Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-4,  dated  June  27,  1997,
     Registration No. 333-26951).

3.1  -  Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  the  Company
     (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the  Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2  - Restated Bylaws of the Company  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
     to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
     Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3  -  Certificate  of   Designations   of  Special   Preferred   Voting  Stock
     (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the  Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-3,  Registration No.  333-42315,  filed with the SEC on
     December 17, 1997).

3.4  - Terms and Conditions of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by reference to
     Annex F to the Definitive Joint Management  Information  Circular and Proxy
     Statement of the Company and Chauvco,  File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on November 17, 1997).

4.1  - Form of  Certificate  of Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share,  of the
     Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,  Registration No.
     333-26951).

4.2  - Form of Certificate of Special  Preferred  Voting Stock  (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File
     No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3  - Form of Certificate of Exchangeable Shares  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  4.2  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

9.1  - Shareholder  Agreement,  dated as of April 6, 1997,  between Mesa,  Boone
     Pickens and Parker & Parsley  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to
     Mesa's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 8, 1997).

9.2  -  Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of April 6,  1997,  between  DNR-Mesa
     Holdings,  L.P. ("DNR") and Mesa  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2
     to Mesa's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 8, 1997).

9.3  - Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18, 1997, among
     the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada) Ltd. ("Pioneer Canada") and
     Montreal Trust Company of Canada, as Trustee  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  2.4  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).


                                       87

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                     Description

9.4  - Amended and  Restated  Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3,
     1997,  by and  between the Company  and Guy J.  Turcotte  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 2.6 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
     S-3, Registration No. 333-42315, filed with the SEC on December 15, 1997).

9.5  - Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3, 1997, by and among the
     Company,  Chauvco, DNR, Scott D. Sheffield and I. Jon Brumley (incorporated
     by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,
     File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on October 2, 1997).

9.6  - Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3, 1997, by and among the
     Company,  Trimac Corporation and Gendis Inc.  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  2.4  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on October 2, 1997).

10.1 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
     Issuer,  the Company,  as Guarantor,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as
     Trustee, relating to the 115/8% Senior Subordinated Discount Notes Due 2006
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.17 to Mesa's  Quarterly  Report on
     Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

10.2 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary  guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3 - Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary  guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.4 - Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named therein,  the Company,  and
     Harris Trust and Savings  Bank,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
     10.12 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5 - Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA (formerly MOC), a Delaware corporation, the Company, a Delaware
     corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and Harris Trust
     and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee, with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  10.13  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form  8-K,  File No.
     001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.6 - Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     the  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  DebtCo.,  Inc.,  a Texas
     corporation, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation, as
     Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       88

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                             Description  

10.7 - Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  DebtCo.  Inc. (as  successor to Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
     corporation,  the  Company,  a Delaware  corporation,  and Harris Trust and
     Savings  Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  10.15 to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-
     13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.8 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
     Issuer,  the Company,  as Guarantor,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as
     Trustee,  relating  to  the  105/8%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes  Due  2006
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.18 to Mesa's  Quarterly  Report on
     Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

10.9 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.10- Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
     USA (formerly  MOC),  as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
     therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee,  with
     respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.11- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named therein,  the Company,  and
     Harris Trust and Savings  Bank,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
     to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8- K, File No.  001-13245,  filed
     with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.12- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer USA, a Delaware  corporation,  the Company, a Delaware corporation,
     Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc., a Texas  corporation,  and Harris Trust and Savings
     Bank, an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
     identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
     to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001- 13245,  filed
     with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.13- Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer NewSub 1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     the  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,   Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc,  a  Texas
     corporation, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation, as
     Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.8
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's  Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.14- Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc. (as  successor to Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
     corporation,  the  Company,  a Delaware  corporation,  and Harris Trust and
     Savings  Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
     indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.8  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit 10.9 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001-
     13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).


                                       89

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                               Description 

10.15-  Indentures   relating  to  $50,000,000   principal   amount  of  8  1/2%
     Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures due 2005 of Dorchester Master Limited
     Partnership ($2,143,000 principal amount of which were outstanding and held
     by non affiliates at December 31, 1997) and  $100,000,000  principal amount
     of 9 1/2% Senior  Notes due 2000 of Bridge Oil  (U.S.A.)  Inc.  ($2,063,000
     principal  amount of which were outstanding at December 31, 1997) have been
     omitted pursuant to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)(A)  of Regulation S-K. The Company
     hereby  agrees to furnish a copy of the  indentures to the SEC upon request
     (incorporated by reference to Parker & Parsley's Annual Report on Form 10-K
     for the period ended December 31, 1996, file No. 1-10695).

10.16-  Indenture,  dated April 12,  1995,  between  Pioneer USA  (successor  to
     Parker & Parsley), and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association),  as
     Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
     Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

10.17- First Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Parker &
     Parsley,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as Trustee,  and Pioneer  USA,  with
     respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.16 (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.18- Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer  USA,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.,  a Texas
     corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association,
     as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.16
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.19- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer New Sub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas  corporation,
     Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a
     New York banking  association,  as Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.16  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10.18 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.20- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
     Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc., as successor
     to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation,  the Company, a Delaware corporation,
     Pioneer USA, a Delaware  corporation,  and The Chase  Manhattan Bank, a New
     York  banking  association,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture
     identified  above as Exhibit  10.16  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10.19 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001- 13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.21- Guarantee,  dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to the
     $150,000,000 in aggregate  principal  amount of 87/8% Senior Notes due 2005
     and  $150,000,000 in aggregate  principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Notes due
     2007  issued  under  the  indenture   identified  above  as  Exhibit  10.16
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).


                                       90

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                               Description 

10.22- Form of 87/8% Senior Notes Due 2005,  dated as of April 12, 1995,  in the
     aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,   together  with  Officers'
     Certificate  dated  April  12,  1995,  establishing  the terms of the 87/8%
     Senior Notes Due 2005 pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.16  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.2 to Parker &  Parsley's
     Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1995, File No.
     1-10695).

10.23- Form of 8 1/4% Senior  Notes due 2007,  dated as of August 22,  1995,  in
     the aggregate  principal  amount of  $150,000,000,  together with Officers'
     Certificate  dated  August 22, 1995,  establishing  the terms of the 8 1/4%
     Senior Notes due 2007 pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.16  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  1.2 to Parker &  Parsley's
     Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 17, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

10.24- Indenture,  dated  January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank of
     New York,  as Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 99.1 to the
     Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.25- First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of January 13, 1998,  among the
     Company,  Pioneer  USA, as the  Subsidiary  Guarantor,  and The Bank of New
     York, as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit
     10.24  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  99.2 to the  Company's  and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.26- Form of 6.50%  Senior  Notes  Due 2008 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.27- Form of 7.20%  Senior  Notes  Due 2028 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
     reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.28- Guarantee  (2008  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
     Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to the Company's and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.29- Guarantee  (2028  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
     Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to the Company's and
     Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with
     the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.30- Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (Primary Facility),  dated
     as of December 18, 1997, between the Company, as Borrower,  and NationsBank
     of Texas, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CIBC Inc., as Documentation Agent,
     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Documentation  Agent, and The
     Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Syndication  Agent;  and the other Co-Agents and
     lenders  named  therein  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
     Company's Current Report on Form 8- K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       91

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                 Description     

10.31- Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (364 Day Facility),  dated
     as of December 18, 1997, between the Company, as Borrower,  and NationsBank
     of Texas, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CIBC Inc., as Documentation Agent,
     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Documentation  Agent, and The
     Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Syndication  Agent;  and the other Co-Agents and
     lenders  named  therein  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
     Company's Current Report on Form 8- K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.32- Credit Agreement,  dated as of December 18, 1997, among Chauvco, Canadian
     Imperial  Bank of Commerce,  as Agent,  and the other Lenders named therein
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's  Current Report
     on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.33- Note,  dated  December 22, 1997,  between the Company,  as Borrower,  and
     NationsBank of Texas, N.A., as Lender (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.21 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.34+ - 1991 Stock  Option Plan of Mesa  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
     10(v) to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period ended  December
     31, 1991).

10.35+ - 1996  Incentive  Plan of Mesa  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
     10.28 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27,
     1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.36+ - Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  dated  February 19, 1991
     (incorporated   by   reference   to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Parker  &  Parsley's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

10.37+ - First  Amendment  to the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
     dated August 23, 1991  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Parker
     & Parsley's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1,  dated February 28, 1992,
     Registration No. 33-46082).

10.38+ - The Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-8,
     Registration No. 333-35087).

10.39+ - The Company's  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  (incorporated by reference
     to  Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,
     Registration No. 333-35165).

10.40+ - The Company's  Deferred  Compensation  Retirement Plan (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
     S-8, Registration No. 333- 39153).

10.41+ - Pioneer USA 401(k) Plan  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
     the  Company's   Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,  Registration  No.
     333-39249).

10.42+*- Pioneer USA Matching Plan.

                                       92

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                   Description  

10.43+ - Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included as
     part of the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as of November
     16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive Officers  identified
     on Schedule 1 setting  forth  additional  details  relating to the Parker &
     Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Parker &
     Parsley's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended  December  31,
     1995, Commission File No. 1-10695).

10.44+ - Employment Agreement,  dated as of August 21, 1996, between Mesa and I.
     Jon Brumley  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.26 to Mesa's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1996).

10.45+ - Mesa  Management  Severance  Plan,  dated  April 4, 1997,  including  a
     Schedule of  Participants  on  Schedule A for the  purpose of defining  the
     payment  of  certain   benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the  officer's
     employment  under  certain  circumstances  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 10.29 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4,  dated
     June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.46+ - Severance  Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between the Company
     and Scott D. Sheffield,  together with a schedule identifying substantially
     identical  agreements  between  the  Company  and each of the  other  named
     executive officers identified on Schedule I for the purpose of defining the
     payment  of  certain   benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the  officer's
     employment  under  certain  circumstances  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
     ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.47+ -  Indemnification  Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between  the
     Company  and  Scott D.  Sheffield,  together  with a  schedule  identifying
     substantially  identical  agreements  between  the  Company and each of the
     Company's  other  directors  and named  executive  officers  identified  on
     Schedule I  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10.8 to the  Company's
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File
     No. 001-13245).

10.48+ - Stock  Acquisition  Loan  Agreement  entered  into as of June 15, 1995,
     between Parker & Parsley and Scott D.  Sheffield,  together with Schedule I
     identifying   named  executive   officers  with   substantially   identical
     agreements,  providing for Parker & Parsley's loans to such officers of the
     amounts  respectively  identified on Schedule I thereto, for the purpose of
     acquiring  Parker &  Parsley's  Common  Stock,  par  value  $0.01 per share
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the Company's  Registration
     Statement on Form S-3,  Registration No.  333-39381,  filed with the SEC on
     December 17, 1997).

10.49- Purchase  and Sale  Agreement,  dated as of  October  22,  1997,  between
     Cometra Energy, L.P., and Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.22 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
     filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.50- Combination  Agreement,  dated September 3, 1997, between the Company and
     Chauvco  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current
     Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed with the SEC on October 2,
     1997).


                                       93

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                Description 

10.51- Plan of  Arrangement,  as  amended,  under  Section  186 of the  Business
     Corporations Act (Alberta) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.52- Support  Agreement,  dated as of December 18,  1997,  between the Company
     and  Pioneer  Canada  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  2.3 to the
     Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  001-13245,  filed with the
     SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.53- Stock  Purchase  Agreement,  dated April 26,  1996,  between Mesa and DNR
     (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit No. 10 to Mesa's  Current  Report on
     Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 29, 1996).

10.54- "B" Contract Production  Allocation  Agreement,  dated July 29, 1991, and
     effective as of January 1, 1991,  between  Colorado  Interstate Gas Company
     and Mesa  Operating  Limited  Partnership  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Exhibit  10(r) to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended
     December 31, 1991).

10.55- Amendment to "B" Contract  Production  Allocation  Agreement effective as
     of  January 1, 1993,  between  Colorado  Interstate  Gas  Company  and Mesa
     Operating Limited  Partnership  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24
     to Mesa's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-51909).

10.56- Amarillo Supply  Agreement  between Mesa Operating  Limited  Partnership,
     Seller, and Energas Company, a division of Atmos Energy Corporation, Buyer,
     dated effective January 2, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14
     to Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended  December  31,
     1995).

10.57+ - Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees  89-B Conv.,  L.P.  (formerly
     P&P Employees  89-B GP),  dated  October 31, 1989,  among Parker & Parsley,
     Ltd.  and  the  Investor  Partners  (as  defined  therein,  which  includes
     individuals who are directors and executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),
     together with a schedule identifying  substantially identical documents and
     setting forth the material details in which those documents differ from the
     foregoing document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to Parker &
     Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4,  dated  December 31, 1990,
     Registration No. 33-38436).

10.58+ - Amendment to Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P Employees 89-B GP, dated
     May 31, 1990,  among Parker & Parsley,  Ltd. and the Investor  Partners (as
     defined  therein,   which  includes   individuals  who  are  directors  and
     executives  officers  of  Parker  &  Parsley),  together  with  a  schedule
     identifying   substantially  identical  documents  and  setting  forth  the
     material  details  in which  those  documents  differ  form  the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-4, dated December 31, 1990,  Registration
     No. 33-38436).

10.59+ - Schedule identifying  additional documents  substantially  identical to
     the Amendment to Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees 89-B GP included
     as Exhibit  10.58 and  setting  forth the  material  details in which those
     documents  differ from that document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
     10.52 to Parker &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1,  dated
     February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

                                       94

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                  Description 

10.60+ -  Agreement  of  Partnership  of  P&P  Employees  90  Spraberry  Private
     Development GP, dated October 16, 1990, among Parker & Parsley, Ltd., James
     D. Moring,  and the General  Partners (as defined  therein,  which includes
     individuals who are directors and executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),
     and form of  Amendment  to Agreement  of  Partnership  of P&P  Employees 90
     Spraberry  Private  Development  GP,  together with a schedule  identifying
     substantially identical documents and setting forth the material details in
     which those documents differ from the foregoing  document  (incorporated by
     reference to Exhibit 10.52 to Parker & Parsley's  Registration Statement on
     Form S-4, dated December 31, 1990, Registration No. 33-38436).

10.61+ - Amendment  to  Agreement  of  Partnership  of Parker & Parsley 90-A GP,
     dated February 19, 1991, among Parker & Parsley Development Company and the
     Investor Partners (as defined therein,  which includes  individuals who are
     directors  and  executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),  together  with a
     schedule  identifying  substantially  identical documents and setting forth
     the material  details in which those  documents  differ from the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,  Registration
     No. 33-46082).

10.62+ - Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees 91-A, GP, dated September 30,
     1991, among Parker & Parsley Development Company,  James D. Moring, and the
     General  Partners (as defined therein,  which includes  individuals who are
     directors  and  executive  officers of Parker & Parsley),  together  with a
     schedule  identifying  substantially  identical documents and setting forth
     the material  details in which those  documents  differ from the  foregoing
     document  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to Parker & Parsley's
     Registration  Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,  Registration
     No. 33-46082).

10.63+ - Amendment  to Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P  Employees 90 Spraberry
     Private  Development  GP,  dated April 22,  1991,  among the  Partners  (as
     defined therein, which includes individuals who are directors and executive
     officers of Parker & Parsley)  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.67
     to Parker & Parsley's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1,  dated February
     28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

11.1*  -  Statement of Computation of Earnings per Share

16.1*  -  Change in Certifying Accountants

21.1*  -  Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*  -  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

23.2*  -  Consent of Martin Petroleum & Associates

23.3*  -  Consent of Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates

27.1*  -  Financial Data Schedule

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith
+   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).

                                       95

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 11.1

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

                                                                     Per Share
                                                Income     Shares    Amount(a)
                                              ---------   --------   ---------
                                                  (in thousands)
December 31, 1997

Basic EPS:
   Loss available to common stockholders      $(890,671)    51,973   $  (17.14)
                                                                      ========

Effect of Dilutive Securities:
   Options/restricted stock                         -          310
   Preferred shares                               3,834      3,771
                                               --------   --------

Diluted EPS:
   Loss available to common stockholders
     plus assumed conversions                 $(886,837)    56,054   $  (15.82)
                                               ========   ========    ========


December 31, 1996

Basic EPS:
   Income available to common stockholders    $ 140,248     35,475   $    3.95
                                                                      ========

Effect of Dilutive Securities:
   Options/restricted stock                         -          394
   Preferred shares                               7,683      6,714
                                               --------   --------

Diluted EPS:
   Income available to common stockholders
     plus assumed conversions                 $ 147,931     42,583   $    3.47
                                               ========   ========    ========

December 31, 1995

Basic EPS:
   Loss available to common stockholders      $ (99,769)    35,090   $   (2.84)
                                                                      ========

Effect of Dilutive Securities:
   Options/restricted stock                         -          487
   Preferred shares                               7,683      6,714
                                               --------   --------

Diluted EPS:
   Loss available to common stockholders
     plus assumed conversions                 $ (92,086)    42,291   $   (2.18)
                                               ========   ========    ========

- ---------------

(a)   For 1997 and 1995, the computation of earnings per share was  antidilutive
      and  was not  presented  in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement  of
      Operations  in  accordance  with the  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
      Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share".



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-16
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 16.1




March 17, 1988



Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C.  20549

Ladies and Gentlemen:

We were previously  principal  accountants for Pioneer Natural Resources Company
and,  under the date of February  13,  1998,  we  reported  on the  consolidated
financial statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries as of
and for the years ended  December  31, 1997 and 1996.  On December 5, 1997,  our
appointment as principal  accountants  was terminated for periods after December
31, 1997. We have read Pioneer Natural Resources  Company's  statements included
under Item 9 of Form 10-K, and we agree with such statements.

                                                  Very truly yours,



                                                  KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1


                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
    of Organization           Subsidiaries
- ---------------------         ------------

Canada                        405704 Alberta Ltd.
Canada                        711841 Alberta Ltd.
Australia                     Antenor P/L
Switzerland                   Aredor Distribution Company Ltd.
Australia                     Aredor Holdings Ltd.
Australia                     Aredor Sales P/L
Australia                     Bridge Coal P/L
Australia                     Bridge Energy NSW P/L
Australia                     Bridge Exploration NSW P/L
Australia                     Bridge Minerals P/L
Australia                     Bridge Oil Australia Pty Ltd.
Australia                     Bridge Oil Neuquen Basin P/L
Netherlands Antilles          Bridge Oil Overseas N.V.
Australia                     Bridge Oil Services (Overseas) P/L
Delaware                      Bridge Oil (U.S.A.) Inc.
Australia                     Bridge Oil ZOCA 91-13 P/L
Australia                     Bridge Resources NSW P/L
Texas                         BSE Properties, Inc.
Bermuda                       CR International Limited
Australia                     Cyprienne P/L
Delaware                      DMLP Co.
Delaware                      Doram Energy, Inc.
Texas                         Dorchester Gas Systems, Inc.
Texas                         Dorchester Intrastate Gas Systems, L.P.
Australia                     Edland P/L
Delaware                      Hugoton Capital Corporation
Delaware                      LTP Investments, Inc.
Delaware                      Mesa Capital Corporation
Delaware                      Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                         Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                      Mesa Transmission Co.
Delaware                      P&PCanada LP Co.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Canada                        Parker & Parsley (Canada) Petroleum Company
Turks and Caicos Islands      Parker & Parsley Capital LLC
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Energy Trading Company
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Gas Processing Co.
Cayman Islands                Parker & Parsley International Holdings, Ltd.
Australia                     Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia
                                   Holdings Pty Limited
Australia                     Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Pty Limited
Texas                         Parker & Parsley Scholarship Foundation
New York                      Parker & Parsley Transfer Agent Corporation
Texas                         Parsley Petroleum Company
Delaware                      Pioneer Holding Inc.
Delaware                      Pioneer International Resources Company
Texas                         Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Argentina                     Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.



<PAGE>




State or Jurisdiction
    of Organization           Subsidiaries
- ---------------------         ------------

Canada                        Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Canada                        Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada) Ltd.
Cayman Islands                Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Delaware                      Pioneer Natural Resources (GPC) Inc.
Cayman Islands                Pioneer Natural Resources Guatemala Ltd.
Canada                        Pioneer Natural Resources (ND) Holdings Inc.
Argentina                     Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Delaware                      Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Delaware                      Pioneer NGLs (USA) Inc.
Canada                        Pioneer Petroleum (TRI) Ltd.
Delaware                      Pioneer Pipelines (USA) Inc.
Texas                         Pioneer Production Corporation International
Delaware                      Pioneer Resources Inc.
Bahamas                       Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Bahamas                       Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Delaware                      Pioneer Resources (ND) Inc.
Delaware                      Pioneer Resources Producing L.P.
Texas                         Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                      PNR Resources (USA) Inc.
Canada                        PNRC Oil & Gas Ltd.
Texas                         PNRC Properties L.P.
Delaware                      Rosamond Drilling Company, Inc.
Pennsylvania                  Three Rivers Pipeline Business Trust
Delaware                      Westpan NGL Co.

                              Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources 
                              USA, Inc.is the managing general partner
                              -------------------------------------------

Texas                         Parker & Parsley 81-I, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 81-II, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 82-I, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 82-II, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 82-III, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 83-A, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 83-B, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 84-A, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 85-A, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 85-B, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley Private Investment 85-A Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley Selected 85 Private
                                   Investment, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 86-A, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 86-B, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 86-C, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley Private Investment 86, Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 87-B Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Private Investment 87, Ltd.

  

<PAGE>



State or Jurisdiction
    of Organization           Subsidiaries
- ---------------------         ------------

Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-B, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-C, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 88-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 89-A, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 89-B, L.P.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 89-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 89-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-A, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-B, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90-C, L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley Private Investment 90
                                   Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees Private Investment 90 Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private
                                   Development Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private
                                   Development L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 91-A, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 91-B, L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 91-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                      Parker & Parsley 91-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 91-A G.P.
Texas                         P&P Employees 91-B G.P.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 1992 Direct Investment
                                   Program, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 1993 Direct Investment
                                   Program, Ltd.
Texas                         Parker & Parsley 1994 Direct Investment
                                   Program, Ltd.
Texas                         Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.

                   
<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1



                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153, No. 333-39249, No. 33-44851, No.
333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No. 333-42315,  No. 333-44439, No.
333-46311 and No.  333-39381) on Form S-3 of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company
and  subsidiaries  and its  predecessors  of our report dated February 13, 1998,
relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Pioneer Natural Resources Company
and  subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related  consolidated
statements of operations,  stockholders'  equity, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year  period ended December 31, 1997, which report appears in
the December 31, 1997 annual  report on Form 10-K of Pioneer  Natural  Resources
Company.  Our  report  refers to a change in the  method of  accounting  for the
impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of.




                                             KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Midland, Texas
March 18, 1998





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.2

                CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165, No. 333-39153, No. 333-39249, No. 333-44851, No.
333-35085,  and No. 333- 35175) on Form S-8 and (No.  333-42315,  No. 333-44439,
No.  333-46311  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 of  Pioneer  Natural  Resources
Company and subsidiaries,  to our report dated January 29, 1998, in the December
31, 1997 annual report on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural Resources Company.
                                                    


                                        MARTIN PETROLEUM & ASSOCIATES



                                        / s /  John Hewitt
                                        -----------------------------------
                                        John Hewitt, M.A., P. Eng.






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>

                                                             
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.3




                 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165, No. 333-39153, No. 333-39249, No. 333-44851, No.
333-35085,  and No. 333- 35175) on Form S-8 and (No.  333-42315,  No. 333-44439,
No.  333-46311  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 of  Pioneer  Natural  Resources
Company and subsidiaries,  to our report dated January 19, 1998, in the December
31, 1997 annual report on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural Resources Company.


                                       Very truly yours,


                                       GILBERT LAUSTSEN JUNG ASSOCIATES LTD.



                                       / s / Wayne W. Chow
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       Wayne W. Chow, P. Eng. and Vice President

Calgary, Alberta
March 18, 1998





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<CIK> 0001038357
<NAME> PIONEER
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1997
<CASH>                                          73,408
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  191,932
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                     13,576
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               308,188
<PP&E>                                       4,165,062
<DEPRECIATION>                                 605,203
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               3,946,590
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          261,552
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         1,010
<OTHER-SE>                                   1,547,835
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 3,946,590
<SALES>                                        536,782
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               546,029
<CGS>                                          144,170
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                1,838,918
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 7,124
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              77,550
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            (1,377,563)
<INCOME-TAX>                                 (500,300)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          (877,263)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                               (13,408)
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 (890,671)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  (17.14)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  (17.14)
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.42

                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.

                                  MATCHING PLAN

            (As Amended and Restated Effective as of October 1, 1997)



<PAGE>



                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                                  MATCHING PLAN

            (As Amended and Restated Effective as of October 1, 1997)

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                           Page

PREAMBLE...................................................................  1

ARTICLE I.    DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.................................  1
              Section 1.1  Definitions.....................................  1
              Section 1.2  Construction....................................  7

ARTICLE II.   ELIGIBILITY..................................................  7
              Section 2.1  Eligibility and Participation...................  7

ARTICLE III.  CONTRIBUTIONS, LIMITATIONS AND FORFEITURES...................  7
              Section 3.1  Matching Contributions..........................  7
              Section 3.2  Crediting of Contributions......................  8
              Section 3.3  Return of Matching Contributions................  8
              Section 3.4  Application and Allocation of Forfeitures.......  8
              Section 3.5  Rollover Contributions..........................  8
              Section 3.6  Limitations on Contributions....................  8

ARTICLE IV.   TRUST FUND................................................... 11
              Section 4.1  Trust and Trustee............................... 11
              Section 4.2  Trust Investment Options........................ 12

ARTICLE V.    VESTING...................................................... 12
              Section 5.1  Fully Vested Accounts........................... 12
              Section 5.2  Vesting of Matching Account..................... 12

ARTICLE VI.   DISTRIBUTIONS................................................ 13
              Section 6.1  Time and Form of Distribution................... 13
              Section 6.2  Distribution of Retirement Benefit.............. 14
              Section 6.3  Distribution of Death Benefit................... 15
              Section 6.4  Distribution of Separation from Employment
                      Benefit.............................................. 16
              Section 6.5  Forfeitures..................................... 16
              Section 6.6  Distributions to Minors and Persons Under Legal
                       Disability.......................................... 18

                                       (i)

<PAGE>



              Section 6.7  Benefits Payable to Missing Participant or
                       Beneficiary......................................... 19
              Section 6.8  Transfer of Eligible Rollover Distribution...... 19
              Section 6.9  Qualified Domestic Relations Orders............. 19

ARTICLE VII.  PLAN ADMINISTRATION.......................................... 20
              Section 7.1  Matching Plan Committee......................... 20
              Section 7.2  Powers, Duties and Liabilities of the Committee. 21
              Section 7.3  Rules, Records and Reports...................... 21
              Section 7.4  Administration Expenses and Taxes............... 21

ARTICLE VIII. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.................................... 22
              Section 8.1  Amendment....................................... 22
              Section 8.2  Termination..................................... 22

ARTICLE IX.   TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS......................................... 22
              Section 9.1  Top-Heavy Definitions........................... 22
              Section 9.2  Minimum Contribution Requirement................ 24

ARTICLE X.    MISCELLANEOUS GENERAL PROVISIONS............................. 24
              Section 10.1  Spendthrift Provision.......................... 24
              Section 10.2  Claims Procedure............................... 25
              Section 10.3  Maximum Contribution Limitation................ 25
              Section 10.4  Employment Noncontractual...................... 26
              Section 10.5  Limitations on Responsibility.................. 26
              Section 10.6  Merger or Consolidation........................ 26
              Section 10.7  Applicable Law................................. 26



                                      (ii)

<PAGE>



                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                                  MATCHING PLAN

            (As Amended and Restated Effective as of October 1, 1997)


     THIS MATCHING PLAN, a money purchase pension plan, made and executed by
  PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),

                          W I T N E S S E T H T H A T :

         WHEREAS,  the  Company has  heretofore  established  a qualified  money
purchase pension plan and trust known as the Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Matching  Plan  (formerly  known as the Mesa  Employees  Premium  Plan and Trust
Agreement) for the benefit of certain of its employees; and

         WHEREAS,  the  Company  now  desires to  continue  said money  purchase
pension plan and trust without  interruption  by amending and restating the plan
and trust  document in its  entirety to separate  the plan and trust  provisions
into two  separate  documents,  update  the  plan  language,  incorporate  prior
amendments and make certain other changes;

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  premises  and  pursuant to
Section 17.4 thereof, the Company hereby amends and restates the plan provisions
of said plan and trust as the Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. Matching Plan,
as amended and restated effective as of October 1, 1997, to read as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I.

                          DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION

         Section  1.1  Definitions.   Unless  the   context  clearly   indicates
otherwise, when used in this Plan:


               (a)  "Account"  means  a  Participant's  Matching  Account,  Mesa
         Premium Account and/or Rollover Account, as the context requires.

               (b)  "Affiliated Company" means any corporation  or organization,
         other  than  an Employer,  which  is a  member of a controlled group of
         corporations (within  the meaning of Section 414(b) of  the Code) or of
         an  affiliated service group (within the  meaning of  Section 414(m) of
         the Code) with  respect to which an Employer  is  also  a  member,  and
         any  other  incorporated  or  unincorporated  trade or  business  which
         along with  an Employer is under common control (within the  meaning of
         the regulations from time  to time promulgated by the  Secretary of the
         Treasury  pursuant to Section 414(c) of the  Code); provided,  however,
         that for the purposes of Section 10.3 of the Plan,  Section 414 (b) and


                                      1

<PAGE>



         (c) of the Code  shall be  applied as modified by Section 415(h) of the
         Code.

               (c)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

               (d)  "Committee" means the  Matching Plan  Committee appointed by
         the Board of Directors of the Company to administer the Plan.

               (e)  "Company"  means  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc., a
         Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.

               (f)  "Compensation"   means   the   sum  of  (i)  the  Limitation
         Compensation paid by an Employer to an Employee, (ii) any Total Pre-Tax
         Contributions  made by an Employer to the Pioneer 401(k) Plan on behalf
         of such Employee,  and (iii) any salary  reduction  amounts  elected by
         such Employee for the purchase of benefits pursuant to a cafeteria plan
         (within the  meaning of Section  125(d) of the Code)  maintained  by an
         Employer;  provided,  however,  that except for purposes of determining
         whether an Employee is a Highly Compensated  Employee or a Key Employee
         (as defined in Section  9.1(c)),  the Compensation of an Employee taken
         into account under the Plan for any Plan Year shall not exceed $150,000
         (as  adjusted  to  take  into  account  any  cost-of-living   increases
         authorized  pursuant to Section  401(a)(17)(B) of the Code). Solely for
         purposes   of  this   definition,   compensation   from   an   employer
         participating  in the Mesa Premium Plan prior to October 1, 1997, shall
         be deemed to be Compensation.

               (g)  "Covered  Employee"  means  any  Employee  other  than (i) a
         member  of  a  collective   bargaining  unit  with  which  an  Employer
         negotiates  and with  respect to whom no  coverage  under this Plan has
         been provided by collective  bargaining  agreement,  (ii) a nonresident
         alien with respect to the United  States who receives no earned  income
         from an  Employer  which  constitutes  income from  sources  within the
         United States,  (iii) a temporary or seasonal Employee as determined in
         accordance  with the  Employer's  normal  personnel  policies,  (iv) an
         individual performing services for an Employer whom the Employer treats
         as an independent  contractor  for  employment tax purposes,  or (v) an
         individual who is treated as a leased employee by an Employer.

               (h)  "Employee" means any individual employed by an Employer.

               (i)  "Employer" shall include the Company and other  incorporated
         or  unincorporated trade or business  which may subsequently adopt this
         Plan with the consent of the Board of Directors of the Company.

               (j)  "Employment Date" means the date an Employee first  performs
         an Hour of Service.



                                        2

<PAGE>



               (k)  "Highly   Compensated   Employee"  means  for  a  Plan  Year
         commencing after December 31, 1996:

                    (1)  any  Employee  who during such Plan  Year or during the
               preceding Plan Year was at any time a 5 percent owner (as defined
               in Section  416(i)(1)  of the Code) of an  Employer or Affiliated
               Company; or

                    (2)  any  Employee  who  during  the  preceding   Plan  Year
               received Compensation greater than  $80,000 (as  adjusted to take
               into account any cost-of-living  increases authorized pursuant to
               Section 414(q)(1) of the Code) and, if the Company so elects, who
               is  in the  group  consisting of the  top 20% (when ranked on the
               basis of Compensation received during such preceding year) of all
               Employees,  except  those  excluded pursuant to Section 414(q)(5)
               of the Code.

         Solely for  purposes of this  definition,  (i) an employee of either an
         Affiliated  Company or an employer  participating  in the Mesa  Premium
         Plan shall be deemed to be an Employee, (ii) compensation received from
         either an Affiliated  Company or an employer  participating in the Mesa
         Premium  Plan  shall  be  deemed  to  be  Compensation,   and  (iii)  a
         nonresident  alien who  receives  no earned  income from an Employer or
         Affiliated  Company which  constitutes  income from sources  within the
         United States shall not be  considered  an Employee.  For the Plan Year
         ending  December  31,  1996,  Highly  Compensated  Employees  shall  be
         determined  pursuant to the provisions of the  Retirement  Savings Plan
         for Employees of Parker & Parsley as in effect for such Plan Year.

               (l)  "Hour of  Service"  means an  hour for which an  Employee is
         directly  or  indirectly   compensated  or  entitled  to   compensation
         (including  back  pay,  regardless  of  mitigation  of  damages)  by an
         Employer for the  performance  of duties for an Employer or for reasons
         (such as vacation,  sickness or disability)  other than the performance
         of duties for an  Employer.  An Employee  will be  credited  with eight
         Hours of Service per day for any  customary  work period  during  which
         such Employee is on leave of absence authorized by his or her Employer.
         Leaves of absence shall be granted by an Employer to its Employees on a
         uniform, nondiscriminatory basis. In no event shall more than 501 Hours
         of Service be  credited  on  account  of any single  continuous  period
         during which the individual  performs no duties. An Employee's Hours of
         Service shall be credited to the appropriate  Plan Years or eligibility
         computation  period  determined  in accordance  with the  provisions of
         Section  2530.200b-2(b) and (c) of the Department of Labor Regulations,
         which are incorporated  herein by this reference.  In determining Hours
         of Service for the purposes of this Plan,  periods of  employment by an
         Affiliated  Company  and  periods of  employment  as a leased  employee
         (within  the  meaning of Section  414(n) of the Code) of an Employer or
         Affiliated  Company  shall be deemed to be periods of  employment by an
         Employer.



                                        3

<PAGE>



               (m)  "Investment   Fund"  means  any   fund  authorized  for  the
         investment of Trust assets pursuant to Section 4.2.

               (n)  "Limitation  Compensation" means wages within the meaning of
         Section  3401(a) of the Code and all other payments of  remuneration to
         an Employee by an  Employer (in  the course of  the Employer's trade or
         business)  for which the Employer is required to furnish the Employee a
         written  statement under Sections  6041(d),  6051(a)(3) and 6052 of the
         Code,  but  determined  without  regard  to any  rules  that  limit the
         remuneration  included  in wages based on the nature or location of the
         employment  or  the  services  performed  (such  as the  exception  for
         agricultural  labor  in  Section  3401(a)(2)  of the  Code);  provided,
         however,  that the  Limitation  Compensation  of an Employee taken into
         account under the Plan for any Plan Year shall not exceed  $150,000 (as
         adjusted to take into account any cost-of-living  increases  authorized
         pursuant to Section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code).

               (o)  "Matching   Account"  means  the  account  established   and
         maintained  under this Plan by the Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest  under this Plan  attributable  to any Matching  Contributions
         made by an Employer for such Participant.

               (p)  "Matching  Contribution"  means a  contribution  made by  an
         Employer to this Plan for a Participant pursuant to Section 3.1.

               (q)  "Mesa Premium  Account" means  the  account  established and
         maintained  under this Plan by the Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest under this Plan  attributable to Employer  contributions  made
         for such  Participant  pursuant to the  provisions  of the Mesa Premium
         Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997.

               (r)  "Mesa  Premium  Plan" means the Mesa Employees  Premium Plan
         and Trust Agreement, as in effect from time to time prior to October 1,
         1997.

               (s)  "Non-Highly Compensated Employee" means for a Plan  Year any
         Employee who is not a Highly  Compensated  Employee for such Plan Year.

               (t)  The "Normal Retirement Date" of a  Participant means the day
         such Participant attains the age of 65 years.

               (u)  "One  Year Break in Service"  means a 12  consecutive  month
         Period of Severance during which an Employee fails to complete a single
         Hour of Service.

               (v)  "Participant"  means any individual who was a participant in
         the  Mesa  Premium  Plan  or any  individual  meeting  the  eligibility
         requirements  of Article II, and whose Vested  Interest under this Plan
         has not been fully distributed.



                                        4

<PAGE>



               (w)  "Period  of  Service"  means,  for purposes of determining a
         Participant's  Vested Interest in his or her Matching Account, the sum,
         rounded  downward  to the nearest  whole  year,  of each period of time
         commencing with an Employee's  Employment Date or Reemployment Date and
         ending on the first date thereafter  that a Period of Severance  begins
         (except as provided in subsection (x) of this Section in the case of an
         Employee's  maternity or paternity leave of absence).  Included in such
         sum to be credited  to an Employee  shall be each period of time during
         which the Employee is on an authorized  leave of absence for reasons of
         vacation,  sickness,  layoff or another occasion designated and applied
         by an Employer or Affiliated Company on a nondiscriminatory  basis, but
         in no event  exceeding  one year in length.  A Period of  Service  also
         includes any Period of Severance of less than 12 consecutive months. If
         an Employee  who has no vested  right to any amount  credited to his or
         her Matching Account incurs a One Year Break in Service,  such Employee
         shall  forfeit  his or her  prior  Period of  Service  unless he or she
         completes an additional one-year Period of Service before the number of
         his or her consecutive One Year Breaks in Service equals five.

               (x)  "Period of Severance" means a period of time commencing with
         the  date  an  Employee  ceases  to  be  employed  by  an  Employer  or
         Affiliated  Company for reasons of  Retirement,  Permanent  Disability,
         death, being discharged, or voluntarily ceasing employment, or with the
         first  anniversary  of the  date of his or her  absence  for any  other
         reason,  and ending with the date such Employee resumes employment with
         an Employer or Affiliated Company;  provided,  however, that solely for
         purposes of determining  whether an Employee incurs a One Year Break in
         Service, the Period of Severance of an Employee who is absent from work
         due to the  pregnancy  of the  Employee,  the  birth  of a child of the
         Employee, the placement of a child with the Employee in connection with
         the adoption of such child by such  Employee,  or caring for such child
         for a period  beginning  immediately  following such birth or placement
         shall not commence  until the second  anniversary  of the first date of
         such absence and the period between the first and second  anniversaries
         of the first date of such absence shall be considered  neither a Period
         of Service nor a Period of Severance.

               (y)  "Permanent   Disability"  means  the  total  and   permanent
         incapacity of a  Participant  to perform the usual duties of his or her
         employment with an Employer or Affiliated  Company as determined by the
         Committee. Such incapacity shall be deemed to exist when certified by a
         physician acceptable to the Committee.

               (z)  "Pioneer  401(k)  Plan" means the Pioneer Natural  Resources
         USA, Inc. 401(k) Plan, as in effect from time to time.

               (aa) "Pioneer Pre-Tax Contributions" means  Pre-Tax Contributions
         made  by  an  Employer  to  the  Pioneer  401(k)  Plan  on  behalf of a
         Participant.



                                        5

<PAGE>



               (bb) "Plan"  means  this  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc.
         Matching Plan,  amended  and restated  effective as of October 1, 1997,
         and as from time to time in effect thereafter.

               (cc) "Plan Year" means the calendar year.

               (dd) "Qualified  Joint  and  Survivor  Annuity" means an  annuity
         which  is  payable  for the  life of the  Participant  with a  survivor
         annuity  payable for the life of his or her spouse  equal to 50% of the
         amount  of the  annuity  payable  during  the life of the  Participant;
         provided,  however,  that  in  the  case  of a  Participant  who is not
         married,  a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity means an annuity which
         is payable for the life of the Participant.  "Alternate Qualified Joint
         and Survivor Annuity" means an annuity which is payable for the life of
         the Participant  with a survivor annuity payable for the life of his or
         her spouse  equal to 75% or 100% of the amount of the  annuity  payable
         during the life of the Participant.

               (ee) "Qualified Preretirement Survivor  Annuity" means an annuity
         which is payable for the life of the  Participant's  surviving  spouse.

               (ff) "Reemployment   Date"  means  the  date  an  Employee  first
         performs an Hour of Service following a Period of Severance.

               (gg) "Retirement"  means   the  termination  of  a  Participant's
         employment  with an Employer or  Affiliated  Company on or after his or
         her Normal  Retirement Date for any reason other than death or transfer
         to the employment of another Employer or Affiliated Company.

               (hh) "Rollover   Account"  means  the  account  established   and
         maintained  under this Plan by the Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest  under  this  Plan   attributable  to  (i)  Rollover  Property
         contributed  by such  Participant  to this Plan pursuant to Section 3.5
         and (i) any amounts  credited to his or her Rollover  Account under the
         Mesa Premium Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997.

               (ii) "Rollover  Property" means property the value of which would
         be excluded from the  gross  income  of the  transferor  under  Section
         402(c), 403(a)(4) or 408(d)(3) of the Code if transferred to the Plan.

               (jj) "Trust" means the trust fund established pursuant to Section
         4.1.

               (kk) "Trustee"  means the  individual  or  corporate  trustee  or
         trustees from time to time  appointed and acting as trustee or trustees
         of the Trust established pursuant to the Plan.



                                        6

<PAGE>



               (ll) "Valuation Date" means each business day.

               (mm) The  "Vested  Interest"  of a  Participant  means  the  then
         vested  portion  of  the  amount  credited  to  the  Accounts  of  such
         Participant at the particular point in time in question.

         Section 1.2  Construction.  The titles to the Articles and the headings
of the Sections in this Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference only
and in case of any conflict the text of this instrument, rather than such titles
or headings,  shall control.  Whenever a noun or pronoun is used in this Plan in
plural form and there be only one person or entity  within the scope of the word
so used,  or in singular form and there be more than one person or entity within
the  scope of the word so used,  such  noun or  pronoun  shall  have a plural or
singular meaning as appropriate under the circumstance.


                                   ARTICLE II.

                          ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

         Section 2.1  Eligibility and Participation.  Each Covered  Employee who
is a participant  in the Mesa Premium Plan on September 30, 1997 shall  continue
to be a  Participant  in the Plan as of  October 1,  1997.  Each  other  Covered
Employee  shall become a Participant  in this Plan on the first day of the first
pay period in the  calendar  month next  following  his or her  employment  as a
Covered  Employee.  Any  Participant  who ceases to be a Covered  Employee shall
thereupon cease to participate in the Plan; provided,  however, that if any such
Participant  is  thereafter  reemployed as a Covered  Employee,  he or she shall
resume participation in the Plan as of the date of such reemployment.

                                  ARTICLE III.

                   CONTRIBUTIONS, LIMITATIONS AND FORFEITURES

         Section  3.1  Matching  Contributions.  For each pay period an Employer
shall make to the Plan for each  Participant  in its employ and allocate to such
Participant's  Matching  Account  a  contribution  equal to 200  percent  of the
Pioneer Pre-Tax  Contributions made by the Employer on such Participant's behalf
during  such  pay  period  which  are  not in  excess  of five  percent  of such
Participant's  Basic  Compensation  (as defined in the Pioneer  401(k) Plan) for
such pay period.  The  Matching  Contributions  to be made to the Plan for a pay
period shall be paid to the Trustee as soon as practicable, but no later than 30
days after the end of the month in which such pay period ends.



                                        7

<PAGE>



         Section 3.2  Crediting of Contributions.  The Committee shall establish
and maintain a Matching Account for each Participant. All Matching Contributions
made for a Participant shall be credited to such Participant's Matching Account.

         Section 3.3  Return of  Matching  Contributions.  Contributions made to
this Plan are conditioned  upon being currently  deductible under Section 404 of
the Code.  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,  upon an
Employer's  request,  any such contribution or portion thereof made to this Plan
by such  Employer  which  (i)  was  made  under  a  mistake  of  fact  which  is
subsequently  discovered or (ii) is disallowed as a deduction  under Section 404
of the Code,  shall be  returned to such  Employer to the extent not  previously
distributed to Participants or their beneficiaries;  provided, however, that the
amounts  returnable to an Employer  pursuant to this Section shall be reduced by
any Trust losses  allocable  thereto and shall be returned to such Employer only
if such  return is made  within  one year  after  the  mistaken  payment  of the
contribution or the date of the  disallowance of the deduction,  as the case may
be.  Except as provided in this  Section,  no  contribution  made by an Employer
pursuant to this Plan shall ever revert to or be recoverable by any Employer.

         Section 3.4  Application  and  Allocation of  Forfeitures.  All amounts
forfeited  during a Plan Year shall  first be applied to restore  any  forfeited
Matching Account  required to be restored  pursuant to Sections 6.5 and 6.7, and
any forfeitures in excess of the amount needed to restore any such Account shall
be used to reduce the amount of the earliest subsequent  Matching  Contributions
the Employer otherwise would be required to make to the Plan.

         Section 3.5  Rollover Contributions. With the consent of the Committee,
any Covered  Employee  (regardless  of whether he or she is a  Participant)  may
contribute  Rollover Property in the form of cash to the Plan. Each contribution
of Rollover  Property  shall be credited  to a separate  Rollover  Account to be
established  and maintained  for the benefit of the  contributing  Employee.  An
Employee  who is not a  Participant,  but for whom a  Rollover  Account is being
maintained,  shall be accorded all of the rights and privileges of a Participant
under  the Plan  except  that no  contributions  (other  than  contributions  of
Rollover  Property)  shall be made for such  Employee  until he or she meets the
eligibility and participation requirements of Section 2.1.

         Section 3.6  Limitations on Contributions.

               (a)  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,
         if for any  Plan  Year  the  contribution  percentage for the  group of
         Highly  Compensated  Employees  eligible  to  receive an allocation  of
         Matching  Contributions  for such Plan Year fails to satisfy one of the
         following tests:

                    (1)  the contribution  percentage for  said  group of Highly
               Compensated   Employees  is  not   more   than  1.25  times   the
               contribution   percentage   for the preceding   Plan Year for all
               


                                        8

<PAGE>



               Non-Highly Compensated Employees eligible for the  preceding Plan
               Year to receive an allocation of Matching Contributions, or

                    (2) the excess of the contribution percentage for said group
               of Highly Compensated Employees over the contribution  percentage
               for  the  preceding Plan for all Non-Highly Compensated Employees
               eligible for the preceding Plan Year to receive an allocation  of
               Matching  Contributions is not more than  two percentage  points,
               and  the  contribution   percentage  for  said  group  of  Highly
               Compensated Employees is not more than two times the contribution
               percentage  for  the  preceding  Plan  Year  for  all  Non-Highly
               Compensated  Employees eligible for the preceding  Plan  Year  to
               receive an allocation of Matching Contributions,

         then the  contribution  percentage for  Participants who are members of
         said group of Highly Compensated Employees shall be reduced by reducing
         the  Matching  Contributions  made for such  Plan  Year for the  Highly
         Compensated   Employees  with  the  largest   individual   contribution
         percentages to the largest uniform contribution  percentage (commencing
         with the Highly  Compensated  Employee  with the  largest  contribution
         percentage  and  reducing  his or her  contribution  percentage  to the
         extent  necessary  to satisfy  one of the above  tests or to lower such
         contribution  percentage to the  contribution  percentage of the Highly
         Compensated Employee with the next highest contribution percentage, and
         repeating  this process as  necessary)  that  permits the  contribution
         percentage  for said group of Highly  Compensated  Employees to satisfy
         one of said  tests.  For  purposes  of this  subsection  (a),  the term
         "contribution percentage" for a specified group of Employees for a Plan
         Year means the average of the ratios  (calculated  separately  for each
         Employee  in such  group and after  application  of the  reduction  and
         forfeiture  provisions of Sections 3.4(a) and (b) of the Pioneer 401(k)
         Plan) of (i) the aggregate amount of Matching Contributions made to the
         Plan for each such  Employee  for that year and, at the election of the
         Committee,  all or a portion of the Total Pre-Tax Contributions made on
         behalf of such Employee to the Pioneer  401(k) Plan for that year which
         are  not in  excess  of the  amount  of  such  contributions  that  are
         permitted to be taken into account under Sections 401(k) and (m) of the
         Code  and the  regulations  thereunder,  to  (ii)  the  amount  of such
         Employee's   Compensation   for  that  year  or,  in  the   Committee's
         discretion,  only  for such  portion  of that  year  during  which  the
         Employee was eligible to participate in the Plan. Any provision of this
         Section  to the  contrary  notwithstanding,  for the Plan  Year  ending
         December 31, 1997,  the Company may elect,  in accordance  with Section
         401(m) of the Code and other applicable authority,  to use data for the
         current Plan Year rather than the preceding  Plan Year in computing the
         contribution  percentage of Non-Highly Compensated Employees. If two or
         more  plans to  which  matching  contributions  or  employee  after-tax
         contributions  are made are  considered  as one  plan for  purposes  of
         Section  410(b) of the Code  (other  than for  purposes  of the average
         benefit  percentage  test), such plans shall be treated as one plan for
         purposes   of  determining  the  contribution   percentages  for   this

                                        9

<PAGE>



         subsection  (a). If a Highly Compensated Employee is  a  participant in
         two or more plans to which matching contributions or employee after-tax
         contributions   are  made,  then  for   purposes  of   determining  the
         contribution  ratio of such Employee,  all such plans (other than those
         that may not be permissively aggregated) shall be treated as one plan.

               (b)  The aggregate  amount of any Matching Contributions made for
         Participants  which  cannot be credited  to the Matching Accounts for a
         Plan Year  because  of the  limitation  contained in subsection  (a) of
         this Section (along with any income allocable to such contributions for
         such Plan Year,  but not for the gap period  following  such Plan Year)
         shall be forfeited if forfeitable, but if not forfeitable,  distributed
         to such  Participants  no later than 2 1/2 months after the end of such
         year on the basis of the amount of Matching Contributions made for each
         such Participant  (commencing with the Highly Compensated Employee with
         the  largest  amount of Matching  Contributions  for such Plan Year and
         reducing his or her Matching  Contributions  to the extent necessary or
         to lower such  amount to the amount of  Matching  Contributions  of the
         Highly  Compensated  Employee with the next highest  amount of Matching
         Contributions,  and repeating  this process as  necessary).  The income
         allocable to any such excess aggregate  contributions for a Participant
         for a Plan Year shall be determined by multiplying the amount of income
         allocable  to such  Participant's  Matching  Account for such year by a
         fraction,  the numerator of which is the amount of the excess aggregate
         contributions  for such year and the denominator of which is the sum of
         the amount credited to such  Participant's  Matching  Account as of the
         beginning  of such year plus the amount of the  Matching  Contributions
         made for such Participant for such year.

               (c)  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,
         in addition to the above limitations of this Section, the  sum  of  the
         actual  deferral  percentage  and  the  contribution percentage for the
         group of Highly  Compensated  Employees  as  determined pursuant to and
         after any  reduction  in such percentages required by subsection (a) of
         this Section and  Section 3.4(a) of the  Pioneer 401(k)  Plan shall not
         exceed the  "aggregate  limit."  The  "aggregate  limit" shall be equal
         to the greater of:

                         (1)  the sum of:  (i) 1.25 times  the  greater  of  the
               relevant actual deferral percentage or the  relevant contribution
               percentage, and (ii) two percentage points plus the lesser of the
               relevant actual  deferral percentage or the relevant contribution
               percentage,  provided that the  amount in this  clause (ii) shall
               not exceed two times the lesser of the relevant  actual  deferral
               percentage or the relevant contribution percentage; or

                         (2)  the sum of:  (i) 1.25  times  the  lesser  of  the
               relevant actual deferral percentage or the relevant  contribution
               percentage,   and (ii) two  percentage points plus the greater of
               the   relevant  actual   deferral   percentage  or  the  relevant
               contribution percentage,  provided that the amount in this clause
               


                                       10

<PAGE>



               (ii) shall  not  exceed  two  times  the  greater of the relevant
               actual  deferral   percentage   or   the  relevant   contribution
               percentage.

         The "relevant  actual  deferral  percentage"  means the actual deferral
         percentage  determined  for the preceding Plan Year pursuant to Section
         3.4(a)  of  the  Pioneer  401(k)  Plan  for  the  group  of  Non-Highly
         Compensated  Employees  eligible during the preceding Plan Year to have
         Pre-Tax  Contributions  or  Pre-Tax  Bonus  Contributions  made  to the
         Pioneer 401(k) Plan. The "relevant  contribution  percentage" means the
         contribution percentage determined for the preceding Plan Year pursuant
         to  subsection  (a)  of  this  Section  for  the  group  of  Non-Highly
         Compensated  Employees  eligible for the preceding Plan Year to receive
         an  allocation  of  Matching  Contributions.  In  the  event  that  the
         aggregate  limit is  exceeded  in any year,  then the  actual  deferral
         percentage under the Pioneer 401(k) Plan and/or contribution percentage
         under this Plan for Participants who are members of the group of Highly
         Compensated  Employees  shall be  reduced  by  reducing  Total  Pre-Tax
         Contributions   to  the  Pioneer   401(k)  Plan  and/or  any   Matching
         Contributions  made for such Plan  Year for or on behalf of the  Highly
         Compensated  Employees  with the  largest  individual  actual  deferral
         percentages  and/or  contribution  percentages  to the largest  uniform
         actual deferral percentage and/or contribution  percentage  (proceeding
         in the manner  prescribed in Section  3.4(a) of the Pioneer 401(k) Plan
         and  subsection (a) of this Section) that permits the sum of the actual
         deferral  percentage  and  contribution  percentage  for said  group of
         Highly  Compensated  Employees to satisfy the above  restrictions.  The
         provisions of  subsection  (b) of this Section shall apply with respect
         to any  Matching  Contributions  which  cannot be  credited to Matching
         Accounts  under this Plan because of the  limitation  contained in this
         subsection (c).

               (d)  If  any  portion  of  a   Pioneer  Pre-Tax  Contribution  is
         distributed to a Participant  pursuant to Section 3.4(b) of the Pioneer
         401(k)  Plan,  any portion of a Matching  Contribution  (along with any
         income  allocable  thereto) made to this Plan for such Participant that
         corresponds to such distributed  Pioneer Pre-Tax  Contribution shall be
         forfeited.


                                   ARTICLE IV.

                  TRUST FUND, INVESTMENT OPTIONS AND VALUATIONS

         Section 4.1  Trust and  Trustee.  All of the contributions  paid to the
Trustee  pursuant  to this Plan and the Mesa  Premium  Plan,  together  with the
income  therefrom  and the  increments  thereof,  shall  be held in trust by the
Trustee under the terms and provisions of the separate trust  agreement  between
the Trustee and the Company, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated
herein by this  reference for all purposes,  establishing  a trust fund known as



                                       11

<PAGE>



the PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC. MATCHING TRUST for the exclusive benefit
of the Participants and their beneficiaries.

         Section 4.2  Trust Investment  Options.  For investment  purposes,  the
trust fund  established  under the Trust  shall be divided  into such number and
kind of separate and distinct  Investment Funds as the Committee in its absolute
discretion  shall authorize from time to time. The assets of the Trust allocated
to a particular  Investment  Fund shall be invested by the Trustee and/or one or
more investment managers duly appointed in accordance with the provisions of the
trust  agreement  establishing  the  Trust,  as the case may be, in such type of
property  acceptable  to the  Trustee as the  Trustee is directed to acquire and
hold for such  Investment  Fund.  Upon becoming a Participant in the Plan,  each
Participant  shall  direct,  in the manner  prescribed  by the  Committee in its
absolute discretion,  that all amounts credited to his or her Accounts under the
Plan shall be invested, in percentage multiples authorized by the Committee,  in
one or more of the Investment Funds.  Subject to such conditions and limitations
as the Committee in its absolute  discretion may prescribe from time to time for
application to all Participants on a uniform basis, a Participant may change his
or her investment direction with respect to future contributions or redirect the
investment of amounts  credited to his or her Accounts,  provided that notice of
such change is delivered to or in the manner  directed by the  Committee  within
such  reasonable  period of time  prior to the  effective  date  thereof  as the
Committee may require.

         Section 4.3  Valuation and Adjustment of Accounts. As of each Valuation
Date,  the Trustee  shall  determine  the fair market value of all assets of the
Trust with the value of the  assets of each  Investment  Fund  being  separately
determined.  On the  basis  of  such  valuations  and in  accordance  with  such
procedures as may be specified from time to time by the  Committee,  the portion
of each Account  invested in a particular  Investment  Fund shall be adjusted by
the  Committee to reflect its  proportionate  share of the income  collected and
accrued,  realized  and  unrealized  profits and losses,  expenses and all other
transactions  attributable to that particular  Investment Fund for the valuation
period then ended. The amount of any distribution forfeiture shall be determined
on the basis of the most recent valuation  preceding the date of distribution or
forfeiture, as the case may be.


                                   ARTICLE V.

                                     VESTING

         Section  5.1  Fully  Vested   Accounts.   The  amounts  credited  to  a
Participant's  Mesa Account and Rollover  Account (if any) shall be fully vested
at all times.

         Section 5.2  Vesting of Matching Account.  The amounts  credited to the
Matching Account of a Participant  shall become fully vested upon the occurrence
of any of the following  events while the Participant is in the employ of (or on



                                       12

<PAGE>



authorized  leave of absence  from) an Employer or Affiliated  Company:  (i) the
completion of an Hour of Service by the  Participant  on or after the date he or
she attains age 60, (ii) the  Participant's  death,  or (iii) the  Participant's
Permanent  Disability.  Unless sooner vested pursuant to the preceding sentence,
the  amounts  credited  to  a  Participant's  Matching  Account  shall  vest  in
accordance with the following schedule:

            Period of Service
         Completed by Participant               Percentage Vested
         ------------------------               -----------------

            Less than 1 year                           None
            1 year                                      25%
            2 years                                     50%
            3 years                                     75%
            4 or more years                            100%


                                   ARTICLE VI.

                                  DISTRIBUTIONS

         Section  6.1  Time  and  Form  of   Distribution.   Distribution  to  a
Participant  or  beneficiary  under this Article shall be made or commence being
made no later  than 60 days after the close of the Plan Year in which the latest
of the following occurs: (i) the Participant's  Normal Retirement Date, (ii) the
tenth anniversary of the year in which the Participant  commenced  participation
in the Plan, or (iii) the  Participant's  separation  from the  employment of an
Employer  for any reason  other than his or her  transfer to the  employment  of
another  Employer or Affiliated  Company.  In addition and any provision of this
Plan to the  contrary  notwithstanding,  in the case of a  Participant  who is a
five-percent owner (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code) or at the election
of any other  Participant  who  attains  age 70 1/2 prior to  January  1,  1999,
distribution to such Participant  under the Plan shall be made or commence being
made no later than April 1 of the calendar  year  following the calendar year in
which the Participant attains age 70 1/2. Distributions that commence being made
pursuant to the preceding  sentence to a Participant  who has not separated from
the  employment of an Employer or  Affiliated  Company shall be made pursuant to
Section 6.2 as if the  Participant  had  terminated  employment at such time and
shall  be made in  accordance  with the  minimum  distribution  requirements  of
Section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder; provided, however,
that if a Participant  elects to waive payment in the form of a Qualified  Joint
and Survivor  Annuity in accordance  with Section 6.2, the  alternative  form of
distribution  shall be payment of the minimum amounts required to be distributed
pursuant to Section  401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations  thereunder,  but
without recalculation of life expectancy, and with any amount remaining upon the
termination  of the  Participant's  employment or death to be paid in accordance
with Section 6.2 or Section 6.3, whichever is applicable,  but with any payments



                                       13

<PAGE>



adjusted or  accelerated  as  necessary to satisfy the  requirements  of Section
401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.  Subject to the provisions
of this Article  requiring that  distributions be made in the form of an annuity
contract, distributions shall be made in cash. Any provision of this Plan to the
contrary  notwithstanding,  (A) all distributions from the Plan shall be made in
accordance with Section  401(a)(9) of the Code and the  regulations  thereunder,
and (B) all optional  forms of benefit  under the Plan and the Mesa Premium Plan
that are protected  benefits under Section  411(d)(6) of the Code shall continue
to be optional forms of benefit for  Participants to whom such optional forms of
benefit apply  notwithstanding any subsequent  amendment purporting to revise or
delete any such optional form of benefit.

         Section 6.2  Distribution of Retirement Benefit.

               (a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided in this  Section,  upon  the
         Retirement  or  Permanent  Disability  of  a  Participant,  the  Vested
         Interest of such  Participant  shall be distributed to such Participant
         by the  Trustee  at the  direction  of the  Committee  in the form of a
         Qualified  Joint and Survivor  Annuity  contract to be purchased from a
         company  selected by the Committee and commencing in payment as soon as
         practicable  unless the  Participant's  Vested Interest does not exceed
         $3,500 ($5,000  commencing  January 1, 1998), in which event it will be
         distributed to the Participant as soon as practicable  following his or
         her  Retirement  or  Permanent  Disability  in  the  form  of a  single
         distribution.   No  distribution  shall  be  made  upon  the  Permanent
         Disability of a Participant  prior to his or her Normal Retirement Date
         unless such Participant  consents to receive such  distribution or such
         Participant's Vested Interest does not exceed $3,500 ($5,000 commencing
         January 1, 1998).

               (b)  At least 30 days but not more than 90 days prior to the date
         the Qualified Joint and  Survivor  Annuity  contract  is to commence in
         payment to a Participant, the Committee shall  provide such Participant
         with a  written  explanation  of (i)  the terms  and conditions of  the
         Qualified Joint  and Survivor  Annuity,  (ii) his or her right to make,
         and  the  effect of, an  election to  waive  the  Qualified  Joint  and
         Survivor Annuity form of benefit, (iii) the rights of his or her spouse
         with  respect  to the  receipt  and waiver of the  Qualified  Joint and
         Survivor  Annuity,  and (iv) the right to make,  and the  effect  of, a
         revocation  of an election to waive the  Qualified  Joint and  Survivor
         Annuity.

               (c)  After receiving the  explanation described in (b) above, the
         Participant  may elect at  any  time during the 90-day period ending on
         the date the  annuity contract is to  commence in  payment to waive the
         Qualified  Joint and  Survivor  Annuity  form of  benefit  and also may
         revoke any such election during such period. Any such election to waive
         a Qualified  Joint and  Survivor  Annuity  form of benefit by a married
         Participant  will be effective  only if the spouse of such  Participant
         consents  in  writing  within  the 90- day  period  preceding  both the
         election and the optional form of benefit  selected by the  Participant
         and such consent is witnessed by a member of the  Committee or a notary
         public.


                                       14

<PAGE>



               (d)  Any amount  payable  under the Plan  upon the  Retirement or
         Permanent  Disability  of a  Participant  who has  elected to waive the
         Qualified Joint and Survivor  Annuity form of benefit as provided above
         shall  be  distributed  to  such  Participant  by  the  Trustee  at the
         direction of the Committee in one of the following forms to be selected
         by the Participant:

               (i)  by payment of the entire amount in a single distribution;

                    (by payment of the entire amount in monthly,  quarterly,  or
                    annual installments over a specifically designated period of
                    time over a period of two  or more years, but not to  exceed
                    one or a combination of the  following periods: (i) the life
                    of  the  Participant,  (ii) the  lives  of  the  Participant
                    and  his  or  her  designated   beneficiary,  (iii) a period
                    certain not extending beyond  the  life  expectancy  of  the
                    Participant,  and (iv) a period certain not extending beyond
                    the  joint  life  and   last   survivor  expectancy  of  the
                    Participant and his or her designated beneficiary,  provided
                    that if a  Participant  who elects installment payments dies
                    prior to the distribution of the entire amount of his or her
                    vested interest, the  remaining  portion  thereof  shall  be
                    distributed  to  his  or  her  beneficiary or  beneficiaries
                    (determined in accordance  with  Section 6.3)  in  a  single
                    distribution; or

               (ii) by purchase  of  an  Alternate  Qualified Joint and Survivor
                    Annuity contract from a company selected by the Committee;

         provided,  however,  that the  consent of the  Participant's  spouse as
         provided above shall not be required if the Participant selects payment
         in the form of an Alternate Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity.

               (e)  Distributions  pursuant to this  Section 6.2 shall  be  made
         or commence being made as soon as practicable but no later than 60 days
         following  the close of the Plan Year in which the event giving rise to
         a distribution occurred.

         Section 6.3  Distribution of Death Benefit.

               (a)  Except as  otherwise  provided  in this  Section,  upon  the
         death of a  Participant  who is  married,  the Vested  Interest of such
         Participant shall be distributed by the Trustee at the direction of the
         Committee  to his or her  surviving  spouse in the form of a  Qualified
         Preretirement  Survivor Annuity contract to be purchased from a company
         selected  by the  Committee  and  commencing  in  payment  as  soon  as
         practicable following the Participant's death.



                                       15

<PAGE>



               (b)  The Committee shall provide  each such  married  Participant
         with a written  explanation  of the  Qualified  Preretirement  Survivor
         Annuity provided above,  including the Participant's right to waive the
         distribution of such Qualified  Preretirement Survivor Annuity with the
         consent  of his or her spouse  and to revoke  any such  waiver,  within
         whichever of the following  periods ends last: (i) the period beginning
         with the first day of the Plan  Year in which the  Participant  attains
         the age of 32 and ending with the close of the Plan Year  preceding the
         Plan  Year in which the  Participant  attains  the age of 35,  (ii) the
         one-year  period after the individual  becomes a Participant,  or (iii)
         the one-year  period after  separation from employment in the case of a
         Participant who separates before attaining age 35.

               (c)  Each  married  Participant  may elect  at  any time prior to
         such Participant's death to waive the Qualified  Preretirement Survivor
         Annuity  form of  benefit  provided  above  so that  his or her  entire
         benefit may be paid to his or her designated  beneficiary.  No election
         to waive the Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity will be effective
         upon  the  Participant's   death  unless  such  election  designates  a
         beneficiary  that  cannot  be  changed  without  spousal  consent,  the
         Participant's surviving spouse consents in writing to such election and
         such  consent is  witnessed  by a member of the  Committee  or a notary
         public. A married Participant may revoke any such election to waive the
         Qualified  Preretirement  Survivor  Annuity at any time prior to his or
         her death.

               (d)  The  amount  payable  under  the  Plan  upon  the death of a
         married  Participant  who has elected,  as provided above, to waive the
         Qualified   Preretirement   Survivor   Annuity  and  has  designated  a
         beneficiary, shall be distributed to the beneficiary designated by such
         Participant.  Such  designation  shall  be  made in  writing  on a form
         prescribed by the Committee and, when filed with the  Committee,  shall
         become  effective and remain in effect until changed by the Participant
         by the filing of a new beneficiary designation form with the Committee.
         If an unmarried Participant fails to so designate a beneficiary,  or in
         the  event  all  of  a  Participant's   designated   beneficiaries  are
         individuals who predecease such  Participant,  then the Committee shall
         direct the Trustee to distribute  the amount  payable under the Plan to
         such  Participant's  surviving  spouse,  if any,  but if none,  to such
         Participant's estate.

               (e)  All  distributions   under  this  Section,  other  than  the
         Qualified  Preretirement Survivor Annuity provided above, shall be made
         in  a  single   distribution   as  soon  as  practicable   following  a
         Participant's death;  provided,  however,  that a Participant may elect
         (or  if  the  Participant   does  not  elect,  his  or  her  designated
         beneficiary may elect) that distribution be made in monthly,  quarterly
         or annual  installments  over a period of two or more years, but not to
         exceed one or a combination of the following  periods:  (i) the life of
         the Participant's designated beneficiary,  or (ii) a period certain not
         extending  beyond the life expectancy of the  Participant's  designated
         beneficiary.



                                       16

<PAGE>



               (f)  Distributions made pursuant to this  Section 6.3 in the form
         a Qualified  Preretirement Survivor  Annuity contract shall be made and
         such contract  shall provide for  commencement of payment no later than
         one  year  after  the  Participant's death. Distributions made pursuant
         to  this  Section  6.3 in any  other  form  shall  be made or  commence
         being made as soon as  practicable  but no later than 90 days following
         the close of the Plan Year in which the Participant's death occurs.

               (g)  Any   provision   of   this  Section  6.3  to  the  contrary
         notwithstanding,  the surviving spouse of any deceased  Participant may
         elect in writing after the Participant's  death to receive the benefits
         otherwise payable to such surviving spouse in one of the forms provided
         in Section  6.3(e)  above or in the form of a  Qualified  Preretirement
         Survivor  Annuity  commencing  in  payment as of such later date as the
         surviving  spouse  may  elect,   provided  that  such  delayed  payment
         commencement  date complies with the provisions of Section 401(a)(9) of
         the Code and the regulations thereunder.

         Section 6.4  Distribution of Separation from Employment  Benefit.  If a
Participant  separates from the employment of an Employer or Affiliated  Company
for any reason other than his or her Retirement,  Permanent Disability, death or
transfer to the  employment  of another  Employer  or  Affiliated  Company,  the
Accounts of such Participant shall be retained in trust and shall continue to be
credited  with  applicable  earnings as provided in Section  4.3, and the Vested
Interest of such  Participant  shall be distributed  to such  Participant by the
Trustee  at the  direction  of the  Committee  upon  such  Participant's  Normal
Retirement Date by payment of the entire amount in the form of a Qualified Joint
and Survivor  Annuity  contract to be purchased  from a company  selected by the
Committee and  commencing in payment as soon as practicable  thereafter  (or, if
the  Participant  dies prior to his or her Normal  Retirement  Date,  the Vested
Interest of such Participant under the Plan shall be distributed upon his or her
death in accordance  with Section 6.3);  provided,  however,  that (i) each such
Participant shall have the right to receive an early  distribution of his or her
Vested  Interest  under the Plan in the form of a Qualified  Joint and  Survivor
Annuity  contract to be purchased  from a company  selected by the Committee and
commencing in payment as soon as practicable  following  such election,  or upon
satisfaction of the notice and waiver  requirements of Section 6.2, in any other
form provided for  distributions  upon  Retirement  pursuant to Section 6.2, and
(ii) the  Committee  shall  require  an early  distribution  in cash of any such
Participant's  Vested  Interest which does not exceed $3,500 ($5,000  commencing
January 1, 1998).

         Section 6.5  Forfeitures.

               (a)  Unless sooner  forfeited  as provided  below,  any  unvested
         portion of the Matching Account of a Participant who separates from the
         employment  of an Employer or  Affiliated  Company for any reason other
         than his or her Retirement,  Permanent Disability, death or transfer to
         the  employment  of another  Employer or  Affiliated  Company  shall be
         forfeited upon the earlier of the date of such  Participant's  death or
         the date such  Participant  incurs five  consecutive One Year Breaks in
         


                                       17

<PAGE>



         Service  unless  such  Participant is  reemployed  by  an  Employer  or
         Affiliated Company prior to such date.

               (b)  If a  Participant  receives a  distribution  of  his or  her
         Vested  Interest by the end of the second Plan Year  following the year
         in which his or her separation from  employment  occurred under Section
         6.4, any portion of such  Participant's  Matching  Account which is not
         vested  at the time of such  distribution  shall be  forfeited  at such
         time. If a Participant who separates from the employment of an Employer
         or Affiliated  Company for any reason other than his or her Retirement,
         Permanent  Disability,  death or transfer to the  employment of another
         Employer  or  Affiliated  Company,  is  not  entitled  to  receive  any
         distribution from the Plan due to the fact that such Participant has no
         Vested Interest,  such  Participant  shall be deemed to have received a
         distribution  from the Plan of his or her entire Vested  Interest under
         the Plan and any amount credited to such Participant's Matching Account
         shall be forfeited at the time of such separation from employment. If a
         Participant any portion of whose Matching Account is forfeited pursuant
         to this  subsection  (b) is reemployed as a Covered  Employee  prior to
         incurring five  consecutive  One Year Breaks in Service,  the amount so
         forfeited shall be restored to such  individual's  Matching Account out
         of current-year  forfeitures or, if such forfeitures are  insufficient,
         by an additional Employer contribution.

               (c)  If a  Participant  who has not yet incurred five consecutive
         One Year Breaks in Service  receives a  distribution  under Section 6.4
         after the end of the second Plan Year  following  the year in which his
         or her  separation  from  employment  occurred,  any  portion  of  such
         Participant's  Matching Account which is not vested at the time of such
         distribution  shall be retained in such  Account and shall be forfeited
         upon the  earlier of the date of such  Participant's  death or the date
         such  Participant  incurs five  consecutive  One Year Breaks in Service
         unless such  Participant  is  reemployed  by an Employer or  Affiliated
         Company prior to such date. If a  Participant  receives a  distribution
         from the Plan after the end of the second Plan Year  following the year
         in  which  his  or  her  separation  from  employment  occurred  and is
         reemployed by an Employer or Affiliated Company prior to incurring five
         consecutive  One Year Breaks in Service,  then the unvested  balance in
         his or her  Matching  Account  shall  be  transferred  to a  segregated
         account for such  Participant  and the amount that the  Participant  is
         entitled to receive from such  segregated  account as of any later date
         shall be an amount  equal to X, which  amount  shall be  determined  in
         accordance  with the following formula:  X = P (AB + D) - D, where P is
         the  Participant's  vested  percentage  at such later  date,  AB is the
         amount in his or her  segregated  account at such later date,  and D is
         the amount distributed to the Participant in connection with his or her
         earlier separation from employment.

         Section 6.6  Distributions  to   Minors   and   Persons   Under   Legal
Disability.  If any  distribution  under the Plan becomes  payable to a minor or



                                       18

<PAGE>



other person under a legal disability,  such  distribution  shall be made to the
duly  appointed  guardian  or other legal  representative  of the estate of such
minor or person under legal disability.

         Section 6.7  Benefits Payable to Missing Participant or Beneficiary. If
the  Committee  cannot  locate  a  Participant  or  beneficiary  entitled  to  a
distribution  under  this  Plan  within  a  period  of three  years  after  such
Participant or beneficiary  becomes  entitled to the  distribution,  the amounts
credited to the Accounts of such Participant or beneficiary  shall be forfeited;
provided,   however,  that  if  a  claim  for  any  such  forfeited  amounts  is
subsequently  made by any person  entitled to the  distribution,  such forfeited
amounts shall be restored (without  adjustment for earnings or appreciation) out
of current-year  forfeitures,  or if such  forfeitures are  insufficient,  by an
additional Employer contribution.

         Section  6.8  Transfer  of  Eligible   Rollover   Distribution.   If  a
Participant is entitled to receive an eligible rollover distribution (as defined
in Section  402(c) of the Code and the  regulations  thereunder)  from the Plan,
such  Participant may elect to have the Committee direct the Trustee to transfer
the  entire  amount  of  such  distribution  directly  to any  of the  following
specified by such  Participant:  an individual  retirement  account described in
Section  408(a) of the Code,  an  individual  retirement  annuity  described  in
Section  408(b)  of the Code  (other  than an  endowment  contract),  a  defined
contribution  plan qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code the terms of which
permit rollover  contributions or an annuity plan described in Section 403(a) of
the Code.  If the  surviving  spouse of a deceased  Participant  is  entitled to
receive an eligible  rollover  distribution from the Plan, such surviving spouse
may elect to have the Committee direct the Trustee to transfer the entire amount
of such  distribution  directly  to  either  an  individual  retirement  account
described  in Section  408(a) of the Code or an  individual  retirement  annuity
described  in Section  408(b) of the Code  (other  than an  endowment  contract)
specified by such  surviving  spouse.  If an  alternate  payee under a qualified
domestic  relations  order (as  defined  in  Section  414(p) of the Code) is the
spouse or former spouse of the Participant  specified in the qualified  domestic
relations  order,  this Section  shall apply to such  alternate  payee as if the
alternate  payee were a  Participant.  A  distributee  of an  eligible  rollover
distribution  who is entitled to make an election under this Section may specify
that  some  portion  less  than  the  entire  amount  of  such  distribution  be
transferred in accordance with this Section.

          Section 6.9  Qualified  Domestic  Relations  Orders.  Any provision of
this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding:

               (a)  The  Committee   shall  establish  and  maintain   for  each
         alternate  payee named with respect to a  Participant  under a domestic
         relations  order which is determined by the Committee to be a qualified
         domestic  relations  order (as  defined in Section  414(p) of the Code)
         such  separate  Accounts as the  Committee  may deem to be necessary or
         appropriate to reflect such alternate  payee's interest in the Accounts
         of such Participant.  Such alternate payee's Accounts shall be credited
         with the alternate  payee's interest in the  Participant's  Accounts as
         


                                       19

<PAGE>



         determined under such qualified domestic relations order. The alternate
         payee  may  change  investment  direction  with  respect  to his or her
         Account  balances in  accordance with Section 4.2 in the same manner as
         the Participant.

               (b)  Except to  the extent  otherwise  provided in  the qualified
         domestic  relations  order naming an alternate  payee with respect to a
         Participant,  (i) the alternate  payee may designate a beneficiary on a
         form  prescribed  by and  filed  with  the  Committee,  (ii) if no such
         beneficiary is validly designated or if the designated beneficiary is a
         person who  predeceases  the alternate  payee,  the  beneficiary of the
         alternate payee shall be the alternate  payee's  estate,  and (iii) the
         beneficiary of the alternate payee shall be accorded under the Plan all
         of the rights and privileges of the beneficiary of a Participant.

               (c)  An alternate payee named with respect to a Participant shall
         be entitled to receive a distribution  from the Plan in accordance with
         the  qualified  domestic  relations order naming such alternate  payee.
         Such distribution may  be made  only in a form provided under the  Plan
         and shall  include only  such amounts  as  are vested.  If a  qualified
         domestic  relations order so provides,  a lump sum  distribution of the
         total vested amount credited to the alternate  payee's  Accounts may be
         made  to the  alternate  payee  at any  time  prior  to  the  date  the
         Participant  named in such qualified  domestic  relations order attains
         his or her earliest retirement age (as defined in Section  414(p)(4)(B)
         of the Code).

               (d)  If  a  portion  of  any  unvested  amount  credited  to  the
         Matching  Account  of a  Participant  named in the  qualified  domestic
         relations  order is credited to the Matching  Account of the  alternate
         payee named in such qualified  domestic  relations  order,  the portion
         credited to such  Account of the  alternate  payee shall vest and/or be
         forfeited  at the same time and in the same  manner as such  Account of
         the Participant.


                                  ARTICLE VII.

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATION

         Section 7.1  Matching  Plan Committee.  The plan administrator  of  the
Plan shall be a Matching Plan Committee  composed of at least three  individuals
appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company. Each member of the Committee
so appointed  shall serve in such office until his or her death,  resignation or
removal by the Board of Directors of the Company.  The Board of Directors of the
Company  may remove any member of the  Committee  at any time by giving  written
notice  thereof to the members of the  Committee.  Vacancies  shall  likewise be
filled from time to time by the Board of Directors  of the Company.  The members
of the Committee shall receive no remuneration  from the Plan for their services
as Committee members.


                                       20

<PAGE>



         Section  7.2  Powers, Duties  and  Liabilities  of the  Committee.  The
Committee  shall  have  discretionary  and  final  authority  to  interpret  and
implement the provisions of the Plan,  including without limitation authority to
determine  eligibility for benefits under the Plan, and shall perform all of the
duties and  exercise  all of the powers and  discretion  granted to it under the
terms of the Plan.  The Committee  shall act by a majority of its members at the
time in office and such action may be taken  either by a vote at a meeting or in
writing without a meeting.  The Committee may by such majority action  authorize
any one or more of its members to execute any document or documents on behalf of
the Committee,  in which event the Committee shall notify the Trustee in writing
of such action and the name or names of its member or members so  authorized  to
act.  Every  interpretation,  choice,  determination  or other  exercise  by the
Committee of any discretion given either expressly or by implication to it shall
be  conclusive  and binding upon all parties  directly or  indirectly  affected,
without  restriction,  however,  on the right of the Committee to reconsider and
redetermine such actions.  In performing any duty or exercising any power herein
conferred,  the  Committee  shall in no event perform such duty or exercise such
power  in  any  manner  which  discriminates  in  favor  of  Highly  Compensated
Employees.  The Employers  shall  indemnify and hold harmless each member of the
Committee against any claim, cost, expense (including attorneys' fees), judgment
or liability  (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval
of the  Employers)  arising out of any act or omission to act as a member of the
Committee appointed under this Plan, except in the case of willful misconduct.

         Section 7.3  Rules, Records and Reports.  The  Committee may adopt such
rules and procedures for the  administration  of the Plan as are consistent with
the terms hereof, and shall keep adequate records of the Committee's proceedings
and acts and of the status of the  Participants'  Accounts.  The  Committee  may
employ  such  agents,   accountants  and  legal  counsel  (who  may  be  agents,
accountants  or legal  counsel for an  Employer) as may be  appropriate  for the
administration  of the Plan. The Committee shall at least annually  provide each
Participant  with a report  reflecting  the status of his or her Accounts in the
Trust and shall  cause  such  other  information,  documents  or  reports  to be
prepared,  provided  and/or  filed  as may  be  necessary  to  comply  with  the
provisions of the Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974 or any other
law.

         Section 7.4  Administration Expenses and Taxes.  Unless otherwise  paid
by the Employers in their discretion,  the Committee shall direct the Trustee to
pay all  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  (including  the  fees of  agents,
accountants and legal counsel)  incurred by the Committee in connection with the
administration of the Plan. Should any tax of any character  (including transfer
taxes) be levied upon the Trust assets or the income  therefrom,  such tax shall
be paid from and charged against the assets of the Trust.



                                       21

<PAGE>



                                  ARTICLE VIII.

                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

         Section 8.1  Amendment.  The Board of Directors  of  the  Company shall
have the right and power at any time and from time to time to amend  this  Plan,
in whole or in part, on behalf of all Employers.  Any such amendment made by the
Board of Directors  of the Company  shall be made by or pursuant to a resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, and shall be evidenced by
such resolution or by a written instrument  executed by such person as the Board
of Directors of the Company shall  authorize for such purpose.  With the consent
of the Board of Directors of the Company and subject to such procedure as it may
prescribe,  the Board of  Directors  of each  Employer  shall have the right and
power at any time and from time to time to amend this Plan, in whole or in part,
with respect to the Plan's  application  to the  Participants  of the particular
amending  Employer  and the assets  held in the Trust for their  benefit,  or to
transfer  such assets or any  portion  thereof to a new trust for the benefit of
such Participants.  However, in no event shall any amendment or new trust permit
any portion of the trust fund to be used for or  diverted  to any purpose  other
than the exclusive  benefit of the  Participants  and their  beneficiaries,  nor
shall any amendment or new trust reduce a  Participant's  Vested  Interest under
the Plan.

         Section 8.2  Termination.  The Board of Directors of the Company  shall
have the  right and  power at any time to  terminate  this Plan on behalf of all
Employers,  or to terminate this Plan as it applies to the  Participants who are
or were employees of any particular  Employer,  by giving written notice of such
termination  to the  Committee  and Trustee.  Any  provision of this Plan to the
contrary  notwithstanding,  upon the  termination or partial  termination of the
Plan  as to any  Employer,  or in  the  event  any  Employer  should  completely
discontinue  making  contributions to the Plan without formally  terminating it,
all  amounts  credited  to the  Accounts of the  affected  Participants  of that
particular Employer shall be fully vested.


                                   ARTICLE IX.

                              TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS

         Section 9.1  Top-Heavy   Definitions.   Unless   the   context  clearly
indicates otherwise, when used in this Article:

               (a)  "Top-Heavy Plan" means this Plan if, as of the Determination
         Date,  the  aggregate of the  Accounts of Key  Employees under the Plan
         exceeds  60% of the  aggregate  of the Accounts of all Participants and
         former  Participants  under the Plan. The aggregate of  the Accounts of
         any Participant or former  Participant  shall include any distributions
         (other than related rollovers or  transfers  from  the Plan  within the
         meaning of  regulations  under  Section  416(g) of the Code)  made from
         


                                       22

<PAGE>



         such  individual's  Accounts  during  the Plan  Year or any of the four
         preceding Plan Years, but shall not include any unrelated  rollovers or
         transfers (within the  meaning  of regulations  under Section 416(g) of
         the Code) made to such individual's  Accounts  after December 31, 1983.
         The Accounts of any  Participant or former Participant who (i) is not a
         Key Employee for the  Plan Year in question  but who was a Key Employee
         in a prior Plan Year,   or (ii) has not  completed  an Hour of  Service
         during  the  five-year period ending  on the Determination  Date, shall
         not be taken  into account.  The  determination  of whether the Plan is
         a  Top-Heavy  Plan  shall be made after  aggregating all other plans of
         an Employer and any  Affiliated Company qualifying under Section 401(a)
         of the Code in which a Key Employee is a  participant  or which enables
         such a plan to meet the  requirements  of  Section  401(a)(4) or 410 of
         the Code,  and  after  aggregating any  other plan of  an  Employer  or
         Affiliated   Company,  which   is  not  already   aggregated,  if  such
         aggregation group would  continue to meet the  requirements of Sections
         401(a) (4) and  410  of the  Code  and if such  permissive  aggregation
         thereby  eliminates  the  top-heavy  status  of  any  plan  within such
         permissive aggregation group. The determination of whether this Plan is
         a Top-Heavy Plan shall be made in accordance with Section 416(g) of the
         Code.

               (b)  "Determination  Date" means,  for  purposes  of  determining
         whether the Plan is a Top-Heavy  Plan for a particular  Plan Year,  the
         last day of the preceding Plan Year.

               (c)  "Key  Employee"  means any  Employee  or  former  Employee
         (including a beneficiary  of such  Employee or former  Employee) who at
         any time during the Plan Year or any of the four  preceding  Plan Years
         is:

                    (1)  an officer of the Employer who has Compensation for any
               such  Plan  Year  greater  than 50% of the amount in effect under
               Section  415(b)(1)(A)  of the Code for such Plan
               Year;

                    (2)  one  of the  10  Employees   owning  (or  considered as
               owning  within  the  meaning  of  Section  318 of  the Code)  the
               largest   interests   in   excess  of  0.5%  in  an  Employer  or
               Affiliated  Company and having  Compensation for such  Plan  Year
               of more than the limitation in effect under Section  415(c)(1)(A)
               of the Code;

                    (3)  a person  owning (or  considered as  owning  within the
               meaning  of  Section  318  of the  Code)  more  than  5%  of  the
               outstanding stock of an Employer or stock possessing more than 5%
               of the total  combined voting power of all stock  of an Employer;
               or



                                       23

<PAGE>



                    (4)  a person  who has  Compensation for such Plan Year from
               an Employer of more than $150,000  and who would be  described in
               paragraph (3) hereof if 1% were  substituted for 5% in each place
               it appears in such paragraph.

         For the purposes of applying Section 318 of the Code to this subsection
         (c), subparagraph (C) of Section 318(a)(2) of the Code shall be applied
         by substituting  5% for 50%. The rules of subsections  (b), (c) and (m)
         of Section 414 of the Code shall not apply for purposes of  determining
         ownership in an Employer under this subsection (c).

               (d)  "Non-Key  Employee"  means  any  Employee or former Employee
         (including a beneficiary  of such  Employee or former  Employee) who is
         not a Key Employee.

         Section 9.2  Minimum  Contribution Requirement.  Any  provision of this
Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,  if the Plan is a Top-Heavy  Plan for any
Plan Year commencing after December 31, 1996, then the Employers will contribute
to the  Matching  Account  of each  Non-Key  Employee  who is both  eligible  to
participate  and in the employ of an Employer on the last day of such Plan Year,
an amount which, when added to the total amount of contributions and forfeitures
otherwise  allocable  under the Plan for such  Non-Key  Employee  for such year,
shall  equal  the  lesser  of  (i)  3% of  such  Non-Key  Employee's  Limitation
Compensation (Compensation for any Plan Year commencing after December 31, 1997)
for such year or (ii) the amount of contributions and forfeitures  (expressed as
a  percentage  of  Limitation  Compensation  (Compensation  for  any  Plan  Year
commencing  after  December  31,  1997))  allocable  under  the Plan for the Key
Employee for whom such  percentage is the highest for the Plan Year after taking
into account  contributions under other defined contribution plans maintained by
the Employer in which a Key Employee is a participant (as well as any other plan
of an Employer  which  enables such a plan to meet the  requirements  of Section
401(a)(4) or 410 of the Code);  provided,  however, that no minimum contribution
shall be made for a Non-Key Employee under this Section for any Plan Year if the
Employer  maintains  another  qualified  plan under  which a minimum  benefit or
contribution  is  being  accrued  or made  for such  Plan  Year for the  Non-Key
Employee in accordance  with Section 416(c) of the Code. A Non-Key  Employee who
is not a  Participant,  but for whom a  contribution  is made  pursuant  to this
Section,  shall be accorded all of the rights and  privileges  of a  Participant
under the Plan except that no contributions  (other than contributions  pursuant
to this Section)  shall be made for or on behalf of such Non-Key  Employee until
he or she meets the eligibility and participation requirements of Article II.


                                   ARTICLE X.

                        MISCELLANEOUS GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 10.1  Spendthrift Provision.   No  right  or  interest  of  any
Participant  or  beneficiary  under  the Plan may be  assigned,  transferred  or


                                       24

<PAGE>



alienated,  in whole or in part,  either directly or by operation of law, and no
such right or interest shall be liable for or subject to any debt, obligation or
liability of such Participant or beneficiary;  provided,  however,  that nothing
herein shall prevent the payment of amounts from a Participant's  Accounts under
the Plan in  accordance  with the terms of a court order which the Committee has
determined  to be a qualified  domestic  relations  order (as defined in Section
414(p) of the Code).

         Section 10.2  Claims Procedure.  If any person  (hereinafter called the
"Claimant") feels that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is
entitled under the Plan, such Claimant may file a written claim for said benefit
with any member of the  Committee.  Within 60 days of the  receipt of such claim
the Committee shall determine and notify the Claimant as to whether he or she is
entitled to such benefit.  Such notification shall be in writing and, if denying
the claim for benefit,  shall set forth the  specific  reason or reasons for the
denial,  make specific  reference to the pertinent  provisions of the Plan,  and
advise the  Claimant  that he or she may,  within 60 days of the receipt of such
notice,  in writing  request to appear  before  the  Committee  for a hearing to
review  such  denial.  Any  such  hearing  shall  be  scheduled  at  the  mutual
convenience of the Committee or its designated  representative and the Claimant,
and  at  such   hearing  the  Claimant   and/or  his  or  her  duly   authorized
representative  may examine any  relevant  documents  and present  evidence  and
arguments  to support  the  granting  of the benefit  being  claimed.  The final
decision of the Committee with respect to the claim being reviewed shall be made
within 60 days following the hearing  thereon and the Committee shall in writing
notify the Claimant of its final decision, again specifying the reasons therefor
and the pertinent  provisions of the Plan upon which such decision is based. The
final decision of the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
having or claiming to have an interest in the matter being reviewed.

         Section 10.3 Maximum  Contribution  Limitation.  Any  provision of this
Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the sum of (i) the Employer contributions,
(ii)  the  forfeitures,  and  (iii)  the  Participant  contributions  (excluding
rollover  contributions  and employee  contributions  to a  simplified  employee
pension  allowable as a deduction,  each within the meaning specified in Section
415(c)(2) of the Code),  allocated to a Participant  with respect to a Plan Year
shall in no event exceed the lesser of $30,000 (as adjusted  pursuant to Section
415(d) of the Code to take into account any  cost-of-living  increase) or 25% of
such  Participant's  Limitation  Compensation  (Compensation  for any Plan  Year
commencing  after December 31, 1997) for that year. For the purposes of applying
the  limitation  imposed  by this  Section,  each  Employer  and its  Affiliated
Companies shall be considered a single  employer,  and all defined  contribution
plans  (meaning plans  providing for individual  accounts and for benefits based
solely  upon the  amounts  contributed  to such  accounts  and any  forfeitures,
income,  expenses,  gains and losses  allocated to such  accounts)  described in
Section 415(k) of the Code, whether or not terminated, maintained by an Employer
or its  Affiliated  Companies  shall be  considered a single plan.  If the total
amount allocable to a Participant's  Matching Account for a particular Plan Year
would,  but for this  sentence,  exceed the  foregoing  limitation,  any amounts
allocated  to such  Participant's  Matching  Account in excess of the  foregoing



                                       25

<PAGE>


limitation shall be credited to a suspense account and thereafter used to reduce
Matching  Contributions  for  such  Plan  Year  (and,  if  necessary,  the  next
succeeding year).

         Section 10.4  Employment Noncontractual. The establishment of this Plan
shall not enlarge or  otherwise  affect the terms of any  Employee's  employment
with an Employer and an Employer may terminate the employment of any Employee as
freely and with the same effect as if this Plan had not been adopted.

         Section  10.5  Limitations  on  Responsibility.  The  Employers  do not
guarantee or indemnify the Trust against any loss or  depreciation of its assets
which may occur,  nor  guarantee  the  payment  of any  amount  which may become
payable to a Participant or his or her beneficiaries  pursuant to the provisions
of this Plan. All payments to Participants and their beneficiaries shall be made
by the Trustee at the direction of the  Committee  solely from the assets of the
Trust  and the  Employers  shall  have no legal  obligation,  responsibility  or
liability for any such payments.

         Section  10.6  Merger or  Consolidation.   In no event shall this  Plan
be merged or  consolidated  into or with any  other  plan,  nor shall any of its
assets or liabilities be transferred to any other plan,  unless each Participant
would be  entitled  to  receive  a  benefit  if the plan in which he or she then
participates  terminated  immediately  following such merger,  consolidation  or
transfer,  which is equal to or  greater  than the  benefit he or she would have
been entitled to receive if the Plan had been  terminated  immediately  prior to
such merger, consolidation or transfer.

         Section 10.7  Applicable Law. This Plan shall be governed and construed
in  accordance  with the  internal  laws  (and not the  principles  relating  to
conflicts of laws) of the State of Texas except where superseded by federal law.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this Plan has been  restated  by Pioneer  Natural
Resources  USA,  Inc.  this 11th day of  November,  1997,  to be effective as of
October 1, 1997.

                                          PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.




                                          By    /s/ Larry Paulsen
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Title: Vice President


                                      26

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
