-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Pl6KaeK/kwTsIjsmqX+c33XO/a1BEl7NKi/U4RP+jMLDS/mp176ViHwOgOxaDzmk
 S8G2haTwtDmLNIkAn5KzMQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-02-000007.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-02-000007.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-02-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020307

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		02568747

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>p10k02.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES 2001 10-K
<TEXT>
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K


              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001


                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                  75-2702753
        (State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 1400, Irving, Texas               75039
    (Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                    Name of each exchange
       Title of each class                           on which registered
       -------------------                         -----------------------
       Common Stock.............................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.      [ X ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
  of the Registrant as of February 25, 2002...................   $2,017,546,447

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
  February 25, 2002...........................................      104,052,756

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)  Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 14, 2002
     - Referenced in Part III of this report.



<PAGE>



                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                         Page

Toronto Stock Exchange Cross Reference Sheet...........................    4
Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein...........    5

                                     PART I

Item 1.    Business....................................................    6
- -------    --------

           General.....................................................    6
           Mission and Strategies......................................    6
           Business Activities.........................................    6
           Operations by Geographic Area...............................    9
           Marketing of Production.....................................    9
           Competition, Markets and Regulations........................    9
           Risks Associated with Business Activities...................   11

Item 2.    Properties..................................................   13
- -------    ----------

           Proved Reserves.............................................   14
           Alternate Reserve Case......................................   14
           Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement........................   15
           Description of Properties...................................   16
           Selected Oil and Gas Information............................   20

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings...........................................   24
- -------    -----------------

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   24
- -------    ---------------------------------------------------

                                PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- -------    ------------------------------------------------
             Stockholder Matters.......................................   24
             -------------------

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.....................................   25
- -------    -----------------------

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------    -------------------------------------------------
             Condition and Results of Operations.......................   26
             -----------------------------------

           2001 Performance............................................   26
           2002 Outlook................................................   27
           Critical Accounting Policies................................   28
           New Accounting Pronouncement................................   29
           Results of Operations.......................................   30
           Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity........   34


                                   2

<PAGE>



                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                         Page

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk..   37
- --------   ----------------------------------------------------------

           Quantitative Disclosures....................................   37
           Qualitative Disclosures.....................................   42

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   43
- -------    -------------------------------------------

           Index to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   43
           Independent Auditors' Report................................   44
           Consolidated Financial Statements...........................   45
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   50
           Unaudited Supplementary Information.........................   82

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
           and Financial Disclosure....................................   87
           ------------------------

                               PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   87
- --------   --------------------------------------------------

Item 11.   Executive Compensation......................................   87
- --------   ----------------------

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
- --------   -----------------------------------------------
             and Management............................................   87
             --------------

Item 13.   Certain Relations and Related Transactions..................   87
- --------   ------------------------------------------

                                PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
- --------   ---------------------------------------------------
             on Form 8-K...............................................   87
             -----------

           Signatures..................................................   93

           Exhibit Index...............................................   94



                                        3

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                              CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
              Pursuant to National Policy Statement No. 47 (Canada)
                        (Annual Information Form ("AIF"))


Item Number and Caption of AIF               Heading or Location in Form 10-K
- ------------------------------               --------------------------------

1.   Incorporation                           Item 1.   Business

2.   General Development of the Business     Item 1.   Business

3.   Narrative Description of the Business   Item 1.   Business
                                             Item 2.   Properties

4.   Selected Consolidated Financial         Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
       Information                           Item 8.   Financial Statements and
                                                       Supplementary Data

5.   Management's Discussion and Analysis    Item 7.   Management's Discussion
                                                       and Analysis of
                                                       Financial Condition
                                                       and Results of
                                                       Operations
                                             Item 7A.  Quantitative and
                                                       Qualitative Disclosures
                                                       About Market Risk

6.   Market for Securities                   Item 5.   Market for Registrant's
                                                       Common Stock and Related
                                                       Stockholder Matters

7.   Directors and Officers                  Item 10.  Directors and Executive
                                                       Officers of the
                                                       Registrant


8.   Additional Information                  Item 10.  Directors and Executive
                                                       Officers of the
                                                       Registrant
                                             Item 11.  Executive Compensation
                                             Item 12.  Security Ownership of
                                                       Certain Beneficial Owners
                                                       and Management
                                             Item 13.  Certain Relationships and
                                                       Related Transactions

                                        4

<PAGE>



       Parts I and II of this annual report on Form 10-K  (the "Report") contain
forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking statements. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation"
and  "Item 1.  Business  - Risks  Associated  with  Business  Activities"  for a
description  of various  factors  that could  materially  affect the  ability of
Pioneer Natural Resources  Company to achieve the anticipated  results described
in the forward looking statements.

          Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

       Within this Report,  the following oil and gas terms and conventions have
specific  meanings:  "Bbl" means a standard  barrel  containing 42 United States
gallons;  "Bcf" means one billion  cubic feet;  "Tcf" means one  trillion  cubic
feet; "Bcfe" means a billion cubic feet equivalent and is a standard  convention
used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable gas equivalent basis;  "BOE"
means a barrel of oil  equivalent and is a standard  convention  used to express
oil and gas volumes on a comparable  oil equivalent  basis;  "Btu" means British
thermal; "MMBtu" means one million Btu's; "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls; "MBOE"
means one thousand BOE;  "MMBOE" means one million BOE; "Mcf" means one thousand
cubic feet and is a measure of natural  gas  volume;  "MMcf"  means one  million
cubic  feet;  "NGL"  means  natural  gas  liquid;  "NYMEX"  means  The New  York
Mercantile  Exchange;  "proved reserves" mean the estimated  quantities of crude
oil,  natural gas and natural gas liquids which  geological and engineering data
demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be  recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions,  i.e., prices
and costs as of the date the estimate is made.  Prices include  consideration of
changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on
escalations based upon future conditions.
       (i)  Reservoirs  are  considered  proved  if  economic  producibility  is
supported by either actual production or conclusive  formation test. The area of
a reservoir  considered proved includes (A) that portion  delineated by drilling
and  defined  by  gas-oil  and/or  oil-water  contacts,  if  any;  and  (B)  the
immediately  adjoining  portions  not yet drilled,  but which can be  reasonably
judged as  economically  productive  on the basis of  available  geological  and
engineering  data. In the absence of information on fluid  contacts,  the lowest
known structural  occurrence of hydrocarbons  controls the lower proved limit of
the reservoir.
       (ii) Reserves which can be  produced economically  through application of
improved  recovery  techniques  (such as fluid  injection)  are  included in the
"proved"  classification  when  successful  testing by a pilot  project,  or the
operation of an installed  program in the  reservoir,  provides  support for the
engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
       (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not  include the following: (A) oil
that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified  separately as
"indicated  additional  reserves";  (B) crude oil,  natural gas, and natural gas
liquids,  the  recovery  of which is  subject  to  reasonable  doubt  because of
uncertainty as to geology, reservoir  characteristics,  or economic factors; (C)
crude oil,  natural gas,  and natural gas  liquids,  that may occur in undrilled
prospects;  and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be
recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.

       "Standardized Measure"  means the  after-tax  present value  of estimated
future net revenues of proved reserves,  determined in accordance with the rules
and  regulations of the United States  Securities and Exchange  Commission  (the
"SEC"),  using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent
discount rate; "acquisition and finding cost per BOE" means total costs incurred
divided  by the  summation  of proved  reserves  attributable  to  revisions  of
previous  estimates,  purchases  of  minerals in place and new  discoveries  and
extensions;  "reserve replacement  percentage" means, expressed as a percentage,
the  summation  of annual  proved  reserves,  on a BOE  basis,  attributable  to
revisions  of  previous  estimates,  purchases  of  minerals  in  place  and new
discoveries and extensions divided by annual production of oil, NGLs and gas, on
a BOE basis; and "WTI" means West Texas Intermediate and is a benchmark grade of
oil in the United States.

       Gas equivalents are determined  under the relative  energy content method
by using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL.

       With  respect to information  on the working interest in wells,  drilling
locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined
by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by Pioneer Natural
Resources Company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres.
Unless otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling  locations and acreage statistics
quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or acres;  and, all
dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars.


                                        5

<PAGE>



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

General

       Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer",  or the "Company") is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange. Pioneer is an oil and gas exploration
and  production  company  with  ownership  interests  in oil and gas  properties
located  in the  United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,  South  Africa and
Tunisia.

       The Company's  executive offices  are located  at 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd.,
Suite  1400,  Irving,  Texas  75039;  the  Company's  telephone  number is (972)
444-9001.  The Company maintains other offices in Midland,  Texas; Buenos Aires,
Argentina;  Calgary,  Canada; and Capetown,  South Africa. At December 31, 2001,
the  Company  had 926  employees,  469 of whom were  employed in field and plant
operations.

Mission and Strategies

       The Company's mission is to provide shareholders with superior investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset value. The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are predicated
on  maintaining  financial   flexibility  and  capital  allocation   discipline.
Historically,  these  strategies have been anchored by the Company's  long-lived
Spraberry  oil field and Hugoton and West  Panhandle  gas fields'  reserves  and
production.  Underlying  these  fields  are  approximately  64  percent  of  the
Company's proved oil and gas reserves which have a remaining  productive life in
excess of 40 years. The stable base of oil and gas production from these fields,
together with the soon-to-be-realized  production growth from the Company's 1998
Sable oil field discovery in South Africa, the 1999 Aconcagua, 2000 Devils Tower
and 2001 Falcon  discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico (the "Big 4"), will
generate  the  operating  cash flows that will provide  Pioneer  with  continued
financial flexibility.  The Big 4 exploration successes represent the results of
the  Company's  ability to  selectively  reinvest  capital  from the  long-lived
Spraberry,  Hugoton  and  West  Panhandle  fields  to  areas  offering  superior
investment  returns.  Similarly,  the Company will continue to: (a)  selectively
explore for and develop proved reserve  discoveries in areas that offer superior
reserve  growth and  profitability  potential;  (b) invest in the  personnel and
technology  necessary  to maximize the  Company's  exploration  and  development
successes, and (c) enhance liquidity,  allowing the Company to take advantage of
future exploration,  development and acquisition  opportunities.  The Company is
committed  to  continuing  to enhance  shareholder  investment  returns  through
adherence to these strategies.

Business Activities

       The Company is an  independent  oil and gas  exploration and  development
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor qualitative  differentials,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from
units offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive  advantage is
gained in the oil and gas exploration and development  industry through superior
capital  investment  decisions,  technological  innovation  and  price  and cost
management.

       Petroleum industry.  The petroleum  industry  has been  characterized  by
volatile oil, NGL and gas commodity prices and relatively  stable supplier costs
during the three years  ended  December  31,  2001.  During  1999 and 2000,  the
Organization  of Petroleum  Exporting  Countries and certain other oil exporting
nations reduced their oil export volumes. Those reductions in oil export volumes
had a positive impact on world oil prices,  as did overall gas supply and demand
fundamentals  on North  American gas prices.  During  2001,  world oil and North
American gas supply and demand fundamentals shifted, primarily as a result of an
economic recession curtailing demand,  causing reductions in world oil and North
American gas prices. To mitigate the impact of volatile  commodity prices on the
Company's net asset value,  Pioneer  periodically  enters into  commodity  hedge
contracts.  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in


                                        6

<PAGE>



"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  regarding
the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2001, 2000 and 1999 from the Company's
hedging  activities and the Company's open hedge  positions at December 31, 2001
and related prices.

       The Company.  The Company's asset  base is anchored  by the Spraberry oil
field located in West Texas,  the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas
and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas  Panhandle.  Complementing
these areas, the Company has exploration and development  opportunities  and oil
and gas  production  activities  in the United States Gulf of Mexico and onshore
Gulf Coast areas, and internationally in Argentina,  Canada, Gabon, South Africa
and  Tunisia.  Combined,  these  assets  create a  portfolio  of  resources  and
opportunities  that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas; and that are also
well balanced  between  long-lived,  dependable  production and  exploration and
development  opportunities.  Additionally,  the Company has a team of  dedicated
employees that  represent the  professional  disciplines  and sciences that will
allow  Pioneer to  maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net asset  value
inherent in its physical assets.

       The Company provides administrative,  financial and management support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil,  NGL  and gas  reserves.  Production  operations  are  principally  located
domestically  in  Texas,   Kansas,   Louisiana  and  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  and
internationally in Argentina and Canada.

       Production.  The  Company  focuses  its  efforts  towards  maximizing its
average  daily  production  of oil,  NGL and gas through  development  drilling,
production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while
minimizing the  controllable  costs  associated with the production  activities.
During  2001,  2000 and 1999,  the  Company's  average  daily  oil,  NGL and gas
production decreased primarily as a result of oil and gas property  divestitures
that were supportive of the Company's debt reduction goal. Production, price and
cost information with respect to the Company's properties for each of 2001, 2000
and  1999  is set  forth  under  "Item  2.  Properties  -  Selected  Oil and Gas
Information - Production, Price and Cost Data".

        Drilling activities. The  Company  seeks  to  increase  its  oil and gas
reserves,  production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling
and  by  conducting  other  production  enhancement  activities,  such  as  well
recompletions.  During the five years  ended  December  31,  2001,  the  Company
drilled 2,150 gross (1,510.2 net) wells,  90 percent of which were  successfully
completed as productive  wells, at a total cost (net to the Company's  interest)
of $1.5 billion.  During 2001,  the Company  drilled 390 gross (252.1 net) wells
for a total  cost  (net  to the  Company's  interest)  of  approximately  $423.6
million,  60  percent  of which  was  spent on  development  wells  and  related
facilities.  The  Company's  current  2002  capital  expenditure  budget is $375
million,  which represents a spending  decrease of approximately 42 percent from
2001 total costs incurred for oil and gas production activities. The Company has
allocated the budgeted  2002 capital  expenditures  as follows:  $285 million to
development  drilling and facility  activities,  and $90 million to  exploration
activities.

       The  Company  believes  that  its   current  property   base  provides  a
substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow
growth.  The Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2001 include  proved
undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe and that
require future capital  expenditures,  of 104.4 million Bbls of oil and NGLs and
659  Bcf of gas.  The  timing  of the  development  of  these  reserves  will be
dependent upon the commodity price environment, the Company's expected operating
cash flows and the Company's financial condition.  The Company believes that its
current portfolio of undeveloped  prospects provides attractive  development and
exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years.

       Exploratory activities. Since  1998,  the Company has devoted significant
efforts and  resources  on hiring and  developing a highly  skilled  exploration
staff  as  well  as  acquiring   and   drilling  a  portfolio   of   exploration
opportunities.   The  Company's   commitment  to  exploration  has  resulted  in
significant  discoveries  during  this time  period,  such as the 1998 Sable oil
field  discovery in South Africa and the 1999  Aconcagua,  2000 Devils Tower and
2001 Falcon  discoveries  in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico.  During  2002,  the
Company plans to spend a higher  percentage of its capital on the development of
these   high-impact   projects  (see  "Item  2.   Properties  -  Description  of
Properties").  Consequently,  the Company  currently  anticipates  that its 2002
exploration  efforts  will be  reduced  to  approximately  23  percent  of total
budgeted 2002 expenditures and will be concentrated  domestically in the Gulf of
Mexico and the onshore  Gulf Coast area,  and  internationally  in Gabon,  South
Africa and Tunisia.  Exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or

                                        7

<PAGE>



failure to find commercial  quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling
or enhanced recovery  activities.  See "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with
Business Activities - Drilling activities" below.

       Asset divestitures.  The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of identifying  non-core assets, the disposition of which would increase
capital resources  available for other activities and create  organizational and
operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets
solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such  dispositions  can have the result
of furthering the Company's  objective of financial  flexibility through reduced
debt levels.

       During 2001,  2000 and 1999,  the Company's divestitures consisted of the
sale of oil and gas  properties  and other  assets  for net  proceeds  of $113.5
million,  $102.7 million and $420.5 million (of which $390.5 million in 1999 was
cash  proceeds),  respectively,  which resulted in 2001 and 2000 net divestiture
gains  of  $7.7  million  and  $34.2  million,  respectively,  and  a  1999  net
divestiture  loss of $24.2  million.  The Company's 2001 net proceeds from asset
divestitures  were primarily derived from early termination of interest rate and
commodity hedges, the sale of the Company's  remaining  investment in the common
stock of a  non-affiliated  entity  and the sale of  certain  non-strategic  oil
properties  in Canada.  The assets  that the Company  divested  during 2000 were
primarily  comprised of an investment in a  non-affiliated  entity  and non-core
United  States  oil and gas  properties  located  in  Oklahoma,  New  Mexico and
Louisiana.  The Company's 1999  divestitures  were comprised of non-core  United
States and Canadian oil and gas properties, gas plants and other assets. The net
cash proceeds from the 2001,  2000 and 1999 asset  dispositions  were  primarily
used to reduce the Company's outstanding bank indebtedness.  See Note K of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for specific  information  regarding the Company's asset
divestitures.

       The Company  anticipates  that it will  continue  to  sell  non-strategic
properties from time to time to increase capital  resources  available for other
activities, to achieve operating and administrative  efficiencies and to improve
profitability.

       Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide  exploration/exploitation   opportunities.   During  2001,  the  Company
expended  $170.8  million of capital to acquire  proved and unproved oil and gas
properties.  Excluding cash and other working capital acquired, the Company paid
$92.9 million,  through the issuance of common stock,  to complete the agreement
and plan of merger among  Pioneer,  Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA, Inc. and 42
Parker &  Parsley  limited  partnerships  (see  Note E of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data"). Additionally,  $77.9 million was spent during 2001 to acquire additional
working interests in the United States Gulf of Mexico Aconcagua  discovery,  the
related Canyon Express  gathering system and the Devils Tower project;  21 deep-
water Gulf of Mexico  blocks;  250,000 acres in the Anticlinal  Campamento,  Dos
Hermanas and La Calera areas of the Neuquen Basin in Argentina; and a 30 percent
interest in the Anaguid permit in the Ghadames basin onshore  Southern  Tunisia.
During 2000,  the Company  expended $67.2 million to acquire proved and unproved
oil and gas properties.  Strategic acquisitions of proved properties during 2000
included  incremental  working  interests  in the United  States  Gulf of Mexico
discovery at Devils Tower and the Company's  Canadian  Chinchaga gas field.  The
Company also  acquired an interest in the Camden Hills Gulf of Mexico  discovery
and the related Canyon Express  gathering  system during 2000.  During 1999, the
Company  acquired  Argentine  proved and  unproved oil and gas  properties  that
complement its existing operations in Argentina.  The Company paid $38.8 million
of cash for the Argentine assets during the fourth quarter of 1999.

       The Company periodically  evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;  entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and,
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal
financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.


                                        8

<PAGE>



Operations by Geographic Area

       The Company operates in one industry segment. During 2001, 2000 and 1999,
the  Company  principally  had oil and gas  producing  activities  in the United
States,  Argentina  and Canada;  and, had  exploration  activities in the United
States Gulf Coast area,  the Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,  South
Africa and Tunisia.  See Note P of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for geographic
operating  segment  information,  including  results of  operations  and segment
assets.

Marketing of Production

       General.  Production  from  the  Company's  properties is  marketed using
methods that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL
and gas production are negotiated  based on factors  normally  considered in the
industry,  such as the spot  price for gas or the  posted  price for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.

       Significant purchasers.  During 2001,  the Company's primary purchaser of
oil was ExxonMobil Corporation  ("ExxonMobil"),  the Company's primary purchaser
of NGLs was Williams  Energy  Services  ("Williams")  and the Company's  primary
purchaser of gas was Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko").  Approximately
seven percent, 11 percent and 10 percent of the Company's 2001 combined oil, NGL
and gas  revenues  were  attributable  to  sales  to  ExxonMobil,  Williams  and
Anadarko,  respectively.  The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one
purchaser  would not have an adverse  effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL
and gas production.

       Hedging  activities.  The  Company  periodically  enters  into  commodity
derivative  contracts  (swaps and  collars) in order to (i) reduce the effect of
the  volatility of price  changes on the  commodities  the Company  produces and
sells, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans
and (iii) lock in prices to protect  the  economics  related to certain  capital
projects.  See  "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's  hedging
activities,  "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market
Risk" and Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  concerning the
impact to oil and gas  revenues  during 2001,  2000 and 1999 from the  Company's
hedging  activities and the Company's open hedge  positions at December 31, 2001
and related prices.

Competition, Markets and Regulation

       Competition.  The  oil  and gas  industry is highly competitive.  A large
number  of  companies  and  individuals   engage  in  the  exploration  for  and
development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions
of oil and gas  properties  have  been an  important  element  of the  Company's
growth.  The Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that
complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and
potentially  provide  superior return on investment.  The principal  competitive
factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties  include the staff and data
necessary  to  identify,  investigate  and  purchase  such  properties  and  the
financial resources necessary to acquire and develop them. Many of the Company's
competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other  resources
greater than those of the Company.

       Markets.  The  Company's  ability  to  produce  and  market  oil  and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company  cannot  predict  the  occurrence  of events that may affect oil and gas
prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices  will be  affected,  the prices
for any oil or gas that the Company produces will generally  approximate current
market prices in the geographic region.

       Governmental  regulation.   Oil  and  gas   exploration  and   production
operations are subject to various types of regulation by local,  state,  federal
and  foreign  agencies.  The  Company's  operations  are also  subject  to state
conservation laws and regulations,  including  provisions for the unitization or
pooling  of oil and gas  properties,  the  establishment  of  maximum  rates  of
production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of
wells. States and foreign governments generally impose a production or severance



                                        9

<PAGE>



tax with respect to production  and sale of oil and gas within their  respective
jurisdictions.  The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the
Company's cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

       Additional  proposals and  proceedings that  might affect the oil and gas
industry  are  considered  from time to time by  Congress,  the  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission,   state  regulatory  bodies,  the  courts  and  foreign
governments.  The Company  cannot  predict when or if any such  proposals  might
become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

       Environmental and health controls.  The Company's  operations are subject
to numerous federal,  state, local and foreign laws and regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict  air  emissions or other  discharges  resulting  from the  operation of
natural gas processing  plants,  pipeline  systems and other facilities that the
Company owns.  Although the Company believes that compliance with  environmental
laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities
are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

       The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

       The Company  generates  wastes,  including  hazardous  wastes,  that  are
subject to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  ("RCRA") and
comparable state statutes. The United States Environmental Protection Agency and
various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
"hazardous  wastes" may in the future be designated  as "hazardous  wastes," and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

       The Company  currently  owns or  leases,  and  has  in the  past owned or
leased,  properties  that for many years have been used for the  exploration and
production of oil and gas.  Although the Company has used operating and disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been
taken for disposal. In addition,  some of these properties have been operated by
third parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other
wastes was not under the  Company's  control.  These  properties  and the wastes
disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and analogous state laws. Under
such laws,  the  Company  could be required  to remove or  remediate  previously
disposed  wastes or  property  contamination  or to  perform  remedial  plugging
operations to prevent future contamination.

       Federal  regulations  require certain  owners or  operators of facilities
that  store or  otherwise  handle  oil,  such as the  Company,  to  prepare  and
implement  spill  prevention  control plans,  countermeasure  plans and facility
response  plans relating to the possible  discharge of oil into surface  waters.
The Oil Pollution  Prevention Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends certain  provisions of
the federal Water  Pollution  Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the
Clean Water Act ("CWA"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of


                                       10

<PAGE>



and response to oil spills into  navigable  waters.  The OPA subjects  owners of
facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup
costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited
to,  the costs of  responding  to a release of oil to  surface  waters.  The CWA
provides  penalties  for any  discharges  of  petroleum  products in  reportable
quantities and imposes substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.
OPA requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

       Many states in which the Company operates have recently begun to regulate
naturally  occurring  radioactive  materials  ("NORM")  and NORM wastes that are
generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.
NORM wastes  typically  consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that
become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations
may require the testing of pipes and  production  equipment  for the presence of
NORM, the licensing of NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
disposal of NORM wastes.  The Company  believes  that the growing  regulation of
NORM will have a minimal effect on the Company's  operations because the Company
generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis.

       The Company does not believe that its  environmental risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise  adversely  affect the Company's  results of operations  and financial
condition.

       The   Company  employs  an   environmental   manager  and   environmental
specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. The
Company  performs an  environmental  review as part of the due diligence work on
potential  acquisitions,  including acquisitions of oil and gas properties.  The
Company is not aware of any material  environmental  legal  proceedings  pending
against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

       The nature  of the business  activities conducted by the Company subjects
it to certain  hazards  and  risks.  The  following  is a summary of some of the
material risks relating to the Company's business activities.

       Commodity prices.  The Company's revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on prices of oil and gas,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the Company's  control.  Oil and gas prices
historically  have been very volatile.  Commodity  prices were favorable  during
2000  and the  first  quarter  of 2001,  but have  since  trended  downwards.  A
significant  downward  trend in commodity  prices,  comparable  to the commodity
prices  experienced  in  1998,  would  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company's  revenues,  profitability  and cash  flow  and  could,  under  certain
circumstances,  result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Company's oil
and gas properties and an increase in the Company's deferred tax asset valuation
allowance.

       Drilling activities. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Because of the percentage of the
Company's  capital budget  devoted to higher risk  exploratory  projects,  it is
likely that the Company will continue to experience  exploration and abandonment
expense.


                                       11

<PAGE>



       Unproved properties.  At December 31,  2001 and 2000, the Company carried
unproved  property  costs of $187.8  million and $229.2  million,  respectively.
United  States  generally  accepted   accounting   principles  require  periodic
evaluation of these costs on a  project-by-project  basis in comparison to their
estimated  value.   These  evaluations  will  be  affected  by  the  results  of
exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned  future  sales or
expiration of all or a portion of the leases,  contracts and permits appurtenant
to such  projects.  If the quantity of  potential  reserves  determined  by such
evaluations  is not  sufficient  to  fully  recover  the cost  invested  in each
project,  the Company will recognize  noncash  charges in the earnings of future
periods.  During 1999 the Company  recognized an  impairment  provision of $17.9
million to reduce the carrying  value of certain of its East Texas  unproved gas
properties (see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Acquisitions. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas  properties have been
a key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's growth following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future net revenues  attainable  from the reserves and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

       Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly  reviews its property base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

       Operation of natural gas processing plants.  As of December 31, 2001, the
Company owns interests in nine natural gas  processing  plants and four treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  six of the  plants  and all  four  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas processing  plants.  Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include
carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation  of a natural gas  processing  plant or
facility  could result in an explosion  or the  discharge of toxic gases,  which
could result in significant  damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue
source.

       Operating  hazards and  uninsured losses.  The  Company's  operations are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained by comparable  companies in the oil and gas industry,
it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of high premium costs.

       Environmental.  The  oil  and  gas  business is  subject to environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  gas leaks and  ruptures and  discharges  of toxic
substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial  liability due
to pollution and other  environmental  damage.  A variety of federal,  state and
foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas
business.  Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company
to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost
of the Company's operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs
of acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets and Regulation -
Environmental and health controls".

       The Company does not  believe that its environmental risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of  production or processing or a material  increase in
the costs of  production,  development,  exploration  or processing or otherwise
adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. Pollution and
similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.


                                       12

<PAGE>



       Debt restrictions and availability. The Company is a borrower under fixed
term senior notes and a line of credit.  The terms of the  Company's  borrowings
under the senior notes and the line of credit specify  scheduled debt repayments
and  require  the  Company  to comply  with  certain  associated  covenants  and
restrictions.  The Company's  ability to comply with the debt  repayment  terms,
associated  covenants  and  restrictions  is dependent  on, among other  things,
factors outside the Company's direct control, such as commodity prices, interest
rates and  competition  for  available  debt  financing.  See Note D of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's outstanding debt and
the terms associated therewith.

       Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation".

       Government regulation.  The Company's  business is regulated by a variety
of federal,  state,  local and  foreign  laws and  regulations.  There can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation".

       International operations.  At December 31, 2001, approximately 22 percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (17 percent in  Argentina,  four percent in Canada and one percent
in South Africa). The success and profitability of international  operations may
be  adversely  affected  by  risks  associated  with  international  activities,
including  economic  and  labor  conditions,  political  instability,  tax  laws
(including  host-country export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes
on foreign  subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the
local  currencies in which oil and gas producing  activities may be denominated.
To the extent that the Company is involved in international activities,  changes
in  exchange  rates can  adversely  affect  the  Company's  future  consolidated
financial position, results of operations and liquidity. See Critical Accounting
Policies included in "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"  and Note B of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for information specific to Argentina's economic and political situation.

       Estimates of  reserves and  future net revenues.  Numerous  uncertainties
exist in  estimating  quantities  of proved  reserves  and future  net  revenues
therefrom.  The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set
forth in this  Report are based on  various  assumptions,  which may  ultimately
prove to be inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be construed as
accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

       The information included in this Report about the Company's oil,  NGL and
gas  reserves as of December  31, 2001,  2000 and 1999,  including  Standardized
Measure, is based on proved reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.

       Numerous uncertainties  exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report
contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production,  oil and gas prices,  revenues,
taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities
of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in
the estimates and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related
Standardized  Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report.  In addition,
the Company's  reserves may be subject to downward or upward  revisions based on
production  performance,  purchases  or sales of  properties,  results of future
development,  prevailing  oil and  gas  prices  and  other  factors.  Therefore,
estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed
as  accurate  estimates  of the current  market  value of the  Company's  proved
reserves.

       Standardized  Measure  is a  reporting  convention that provides a common
basis for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and  regulations
of the SEC.  It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the



                                       13

<PAGE>



date of  computation.  Consequently,  it may not reflect  the prices  ordinarily
received  or that will be received  for oil and gas  because of  seasonal  price
fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any
date  are  not   necessarily   indicative  of  future   results  of  operations.
Accordingly,  estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially
different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.

       The Company  did not  provide  estimates  of  total  proved  oil  and gas
reserves  during 2001,  2000 or 1999 to any federal  authority or agency,  other
than the SEC.

Proved Reserves

       The Company's proved  reserves totaled  671.4 million BOE at December 31,
2001,  628.2  million BOE at December 31, 2000 and 605.5 million BOE at December
31,  1999,   representing   $2.5   billion,   $5.6  billion  and  $2.9  billion,
respectively,  of  Standardized  Measure.  The seven percent  increase in proved
reserve  volumes  during  2001  was  primarily  attributable  to  the  Company's
successful  capital  investments,  while the 56 percent decrease in Standardized
Measure during 2001 was primarily due to decreases in commodity prices. The four
percent increase in proved reserve volumes in 2000 was primarily attributable to
the Company's successful capital  investments,  while the 93 percent increase in
Standardized  Measure  during 2000 was  primarily  due to increases in commodity
prices.

       On a BOE basis,  70 percent  of the  Company's  total proved  reserves at
December 31, 2001 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as
of  December  31,  2001,  and  using the  Company's  reserve  report  production
information  for  2002,  the  reserve-to-production  ratio  associated  with the
Company's  proved  reserves  is 14 years on a BOE  basis.  The  following  table
provides  information  regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily
production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2001.

            PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION
<TABLE>

                                                                                 2001 Average
                             Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2001          Daily Production (a)
                         ----------------------------------------------   -----------------------------
                            Oil                            Standardized    Oil
                          & NGLs       Gas                    Measure     & NGLs      Gas
                          (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE         (000)      (Bbls)     (Mcf)       BOE
                         -------    ---------   --------   ------------   -------   --------   --------

<S>                       <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>            <C>       <C>         <C>
United States.........    279,146   1,474,090    524,829    $ 1,965,129    43,456    212,629     78,894
Argentina.............     35,669     471,150    114,193        391,151    10,316     87,204     24,850
Canada................      2,659     132,061     24,669        129,585     1,839     50,481     10,253
South Africa..........      7,685         -        7,685        14,461       -          -          -
                         --------   ---------   --------     ----------   -------   --------   --------
Total.................    325,159   2,077,301    671,376    $ 2,500,326    55,611    350,314    113,997
                         ========   =========   ========     ==========   =======   ========   ========
- ----------------
<FN>

(a)  The 2001 average daily  production  is calculated  using a 365-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.

</FN>
</TABLE>

Alternate Reserve Case

       In addition to the proved reserve table above,  the Company calculated an
alternative reserve case, as presented below,  utilizing an assumed WTI Cushing,
Oklahoma  spot oil price of $22.00 per Bbl and an assumed  Henry Hub,  Louisiana
spot gas price of $3.50  per Mcf as  compared  to the  year-end  proved  reserve
calculation which used a WTI Cushing,  Oklahoma spot oil price of $19.76 per Bbl
and a Henry  Hub,  Louisiana  spot gas price of $2.73 per Mcf.  The  alternative
reserve case has all of the same  assumptions as the proved reserve case at year
end, other than pricing.


                                       14

<PAGE>



<TABLE>

                        Alternative Reserve Case as of December 31, 2001
                        ------------------------------------------------
                                                             Alternate
                            Oil                            Standardized
                          & NGLs       Gas                    Measure
                          (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE         (000)
                         -------    ---------   --------   ------------

<S>                      <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
United States.........   287,500    1,499,328    537,388    $ 2,616,332
Argentina.............    35,669      471,150    114,194        433,478
Canada................     2,625      128,592     24,057        182,116
South Africa..........     7,685          -        7,685         28,589
                         -------    ---------   --------     ----------

Total.................   333,479    2,099,070    683,324    $ 3,260,515
                         =======    =========   ========     ==========
</TABLE>

       The alternative reserve  case represents the  minimum pricing assumptions
that the Company used to make investment  decisions during 2001. Such investment
decisions required, among other items, a discounted return on investment greater
than 150 percent prior to approval.

       In addition to the alternate  reserve case above,  the Company  estimates
that the  potential  incremental  value from  other  exploration  and  extension
opportunities  on the Canyon Express,  Devils Tower and Falcon deepwater Gulf of
Mexico  discoveries  and Sable  discovery  in South Africa to be as much as $285
million  using the same  alternate  reserve case  assumptions.  The Company also
calculated an alternate  discount rate for the Company's  long-lived  Spraberry,
Hugoton and West Panhandle  fields.  The Company  estimates that the incremental
value of these long-lived reserves using an eight percent discount rate versus a
ten percent  discount rate under the same alternate  reserve case  parameters is
approximately $165 million.

       No assurance can be given that future commodity prices will be similar to
the prices utilized in the alternate  reserve case since  commodity  prices have
historically  been very  volatile.  Furthermore,  oil and gas  reserve  quantity
estimates are subject to numerous  uncertainties  inherent in the  estimation of
quantities of reserves and in the  projection of future rates of production  and
the timing of  development  expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates is a
function of the quality of  available  data and of  engineering  and  geological
interpretation  and  judgment.  Results  of  subsequent  drilling,  testing  and
production may cause either upward or downward  revision of previous  estimates.
In addition,  the volumes  considered to be commercially  recoverable  fluctuate
with changes in prices and operating costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve
estimates are inherently imprecise and that estimates of undrilled prospects and
new  discoveries  are  significantly  more  imprecise  than  those of  currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.

       The Company's stockholders and other users of this information should not
assume that the Alternate  Standardized  Measure is the current  market value of
the  Company's  estimated   reserves.   The  Company  calculated  the  Alternate
Standardized  Measure based on estimated reserves calculated using the price and
cost  assumptions  referred  to above.  Actual  future  prices  and costs may be
materially  higher  or lower  than the  prices  and  costs as of the date of the
estimate.  Additionally,  the  Alternate  Standardized  Measure does not include
estimates of the Company's future administrative expense or borrowing costs, the
incurrence of which are ordinary expenditures for the conduct of business.

Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement

       The Company's  acquisition and finding  costs per BOE for 2001,  2000 and
1999 were $7.49, $4.66 and $2.21 per BOE, respectively.  The average acquisition
and finding cost for the three-year  period from 1999 to 2001 was $4.74 per BOE,
representing  a 32 percent  decrease  over the 2000  three-year  average rate of
$6.94 per BOE.

       During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on
a BOE basis (169 percent for oil and NGLs and 245 percent for gas). During 2000,
the Company  replaced 167 percent of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (196
percent  for oil and NGLs and 140  percent for gas).  During  1999,  the Company
replaced  178 percent of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (262 percent for
oil  and  NGLs and  99 percent for gas). The  Company's 2001 reserve replacement


                                       15

<PAGE>



percentage was primarily  impacted by asset  purchases and new  discoveries  and
field  extensions while the 2000 and 1999 reserve  replacement  percentages were
primarily impacted by changes in commodity prices.

Description of Properties

       As of  December 31,  2001,  the Company has  production,  development and
exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa,
and exploration opportunities in Gabon and Tunisia.

       Domestic.  The Company's  domestic operations are  located in the Permian
Basin, Mid Continent,  Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United
States.  Approximately 81 percent of the Company's  domestic proved reserves are
located  in the  Spraberry,  Hugoton  and  West  Panhandle  fields.  The  mature
Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields generate substantial operating cash
flow and have a portfolio of low risk infill  drilling  opportunities.  The cash
flows  generated  from these  fields  provide  funding for the  Company's  other
development and exploration  activities both  domestically and  internationally.
During  2001,  the Company  expended  $334.2  million in  domestic  acquisition,
exploration  and  development  drilling  activities.  The Company  has  budgeted
approximately $260 million for domestic acquisition, exploration and development
drilling expenditures for 2002.

       Spraberry  field.   The  Spraberry  field  was  discovered  in  1949  and
encompasses  eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately  150 miles
long and 75 miles  wide at its  widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas
Intermediate  Sweet,  and the gas  produced  is  casinghead  gas with an average
energy  content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf.  The oil and gas are  produced  from three
formations,  the upper and lower  Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from
6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry  field was unitized in the
late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late
1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the
Company has focused its development  drilling activities in the unitized portion
of the  Spraberry  field due to the dormant  condition  of the  properties.  The
Company believes the area offers excellent  opportunities to enhance oil and gas
reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling  locations,  all
of which are reflected in the Company's  proved  undeveloped  reserves,  and the
ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.

       During  2001,  the  Company  placed  131 Spraberry  wells on  production,
drilled one  developmental  dry hole and, at December 31, 2001,  had 17 wells in
progress.  The Company is  continuing  to evaluate its 2002  Spraberry  drilling
program and has postponed the program until  drilling costs align more favorably
with commodity prices.

       Hugoton  field.  The Hugoton  field in  southwest  Kansas  is  one of the
largest  producing  gas  fields in the  continental  United  States.  The gas is
produced  from the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging from
2,700  feet  to  3,000  feet.  The  Company's   Hugoton   properties   represent
approximately  13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on
approximately  257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres),  covering  approximately
400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells
in the Hugoton  field,  about 1,000 of which it  operates,  and partial  royalty
interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns  substantially all of the
gathering and processing  facilities,  primarily the Satanta plant, that service
its  production  from the Hugoton field.  Such  ownership  allows the Company to
control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated
NGLs.

       Production  in the  Hugoton field is  subject to  allowables set by state
regulators,  but the Company's  Hugoton  operated wells are capable of producing
approximately  106 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead
before  processing and before  reduction for royalties).  The Company  estimates
that it and other  major  producers  in the  Hugoton  field  produced at or near
capacity in 2001. During 2001, the Company completed 12 development wells in the
Hugoton field. The Company does not plan to drill any Hugoton  development wells
in 2002 given the recent downturn in gas prices.

       The Company  is evaluating the  feasibility of  infill drilling  into the
Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas  Corporation
Commission  to  allow  infill  drilling.   Such  infill  drilling  may  increase
production from the Company's Hugoton properties.  However, until an application
has been  approved,  the Company  will not  reflect  any of the infill  drilling
locations as proved  undeveloped  reserves.  There can be no assurance  that the
application  will be filed or approved,  or as to the timing of such approval if
granted.


                                       16

<PAGE>



       West Panhandle field.  The West  Panhandle properties  are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet.  The  Company's  gas in the West  Panhandle  field has an  average  energy
content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is  produced  from  approximately  600 wells on
more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles.  The
Company's  wellhead gas produced from the West  Panhandle  field contains a high
quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from the
Company's  1,025 Btu per Mcf  content  wellhead  gas in its Hugoton  field.  The
Company  operates  the wells,  production  equipment  and,  since May 2001,  the
Colorado  Interstate  Gas Company - (a subsidiary of El Paso Energy Corp.) owned
gathering system.  Production from the West Panhandle field is processed through
the Company-owned and operated Fain natural gas processing plant.

       During 2001,  the Company  placed 29 new wells on  production and had one
additional  well in progress at December 31, 2001. The Company is evaluating its
plans for 2002  given the  recent  declines  in oil and gas  prices  and has not
determined how many, if any,  wells will be drilled in the West Panhandle  field
during 2002.

       Gulf  of  Mexico  area.  In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on
reserve  and  production  growth  through a  portfolio  of shelf  and  deepwater
development projects,  high-impact,  higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling,
shelf  exploration  drilling  and  exploitation  opportunities  inherent  in the
properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this,
the Company has devoted  most of its domestic  exploration  efforts to these two
areas, as well as its investment in and  utilization of 3-D seismic  technology.
During  2001,  the  Company   successfully  drilled  one  development  and  four
exploratory  wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and four development and four
exploration  wells on the shelf.  The Company also drilled two  exploratory  dry
holes in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and three  exploratory  dry holes on the
shelf during 2001 and had one shelf and two deepwater  development wells and one
shelf and one deepwater exploration well in progress as of December 31, 2001.

       In the  deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  the Company has sanctioned three major
development projects that are in progress at December 31, 2001:

o    Canyon   Express   -   The   TotalFinaElf-operated    Aconcagua   and   the
     Marathon-operated  Camden Hills discoveries in Mississippi Canyon are being
     jointly  developed as part of the Canyon  Express gas  project.  Facilities
     construction   and  well  completions  are  underway  and  installation  is
     in-progress for the  TotalFinaElf-operated  Canyon Express subsea gathering
     system with production  scheduled to begin during July 2002.  Wells will be
     brought  on  sequentially  and  are  expected  to  achieve  a peak  rate of
     approximately  110 MMcf of gas per day and 180 Bbls of  condensate  per day
     net to the Company. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company acquired
     an  incremental  12.5  percent  interest in the  Aconcagua  field and a 5.5
     percent  interest in the Canyon Express subsea  gathering  system for $25.5
     million.  The  Company's  ownership  positions  in  this  project  are  now
     comprised of a 23.5 percent  equity  interest in the Canyon  Express subsea
     gathering  system,  a 37.5 percent  working  interest in Aconcagua and a 33
     percent working interest in Camden Hills.

o    Devils Tower - At the Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project in
     Mississippi Canyon, the Company  successfully  drilled two wells to explore
     for new reserves in previously  undrilled  reservoirs and to further extend
     the previously  tested zones.  During 2001, the project was sanctioned as a
     spar development  project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party
     for the  life of the  field.  Construction  of the  spar is  underway,  two
     development  wells and one  extension  well were in progress as of December
     31, 2001,  and production is anticipated to begin during the second quarter
     of 2003. One additional  development  well will be drilled during 2002. The
     wells will be brought on  sequentially  with peak  production  expected  to
     reach 8,000 to 10,000 BOEs per day net to the Company's 25 percent  working
     interest.

o    Falcon  -  The   Mariner-operated   Falcon  project,   which  was  recently
     sanctioned,  was  successfully  drilled and  sidetracked  during 2001.  The
     Company owns a 45 percent  working  interest in this  discovery and was the
     successful  bidder on 21 deepwater Gulf of Mexico  blocks,  12 of which are
     near  the  Falcon  discovery  that the  Company  shares  with its  partner,
     Mariner.  Two  additional  development  wells are planned for Falcon during
     2002.  Initial  production  from  Falcon is  anticipated  during  the first
     quarter of 2003 at expected rates of 79 MMcf of gas per day and 220 Bbls of
     condensate per day net to the Company's interest.

                                       17

<PAGE>




       In addition to the development projects  described above in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico,  the Company drilled the  Dominion-operated  Turnberry  prospect
during 2001. The well encountered hydrocarbon bearing sands; however,  sidetrack
operations on the Turnberry  discovery were  unsuccessful and evaluations of the
initial  wellbore using a 3-D seismic survey are in progress to determine if the
discovery has commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. If commercial quantities of
hydrocarbons  cannot be confirmed  during the first quarter of 2002, the Company
will  recognize a $9.3 million charge to exploration  and  abandonments  for the
costs of the  initial  exploratory  well.  The  Company  also  drilled  its Argo
prospect during 2001 which was unsuccessful.

       During the  fourth  quarter  of 2001,  the  Company  participated  in the
drilling of the  Marathon-operated  Ozona Deep  prospect  that was  successfully
drilled.  The  well  encountered  approximately  345  feet of net oil pay in two
intervals and one or two appraisal wells are planned for Ozona Deep in the first
half of 2002. In addition to the development  projects discussed above and Ozona
Deep, the Company plans to drill one or two additional  exploratory wells in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico during 2002.

       On the Gulf of Mexico shelf,  the Company  participated in  drilling five
prospects  during  2001  in  addition  to  initiating  an  extensive  production
optimization  program at the  Company's  Inland  Bay fields in south  Louisiana.
First,  the  Texaco-operated  Cyrus  prospect  was  sanctioned  during  2001 and
development  plans are underway with production  expected to commence during the
fourth quarter of 2002 at expected  initial rates of 2.3 MMcf of gas per day and
360  Bbls of  condensate  per  day  net to the  Company's  5.7  percent  working
interest.  Second, the Aviara-operated  Oneida prospect was successfully drilled
and is currently being completed.  Initial  production is anticipated during the
second  quarter of 2002 at expected rates of 1.1 MMcf of gas per day and 30 Bbls
of condensate per day net to the Company's 13.7 percent working interest. Third,
the Company participated in the Spinnaker-operated Stirrup prospect during 2001,
in which the Company owns a 25 percent working  interest.  An initial  discovery
well was  drilled  and tested at gross rates over 21 MMcf of gas per day and 130
Bbls of condensate  per day. A second and third well were  successfully  drilled
and platform construction, as well as completion operations, have commenced. The
Company  anticipates first production in April 2002 at expected initial rates of
2.7 MMcf of gas per day and 20 Bbls of  condensate  per day net to the Company's
interest.  Finally,  the Company drilled its Cruiser and Malta prospects  during
2001 that were plugged and abandoned since commercial quantities of hydrocarbons
were not present.

       The Company has also initiated an effort to reevaluate all of its current
producing  properties  on  the  shelf  to  determine  if  there  are  additional
recompletion  opportunities or development or exploration drilling opportunities
on those  properties.  The Company drilled an exploratory dry hole in one of its
Inland Bay fields and has initiated workover and recompletion  programs in these
fields. The Company has been applying new technology to the fields in an attempt
to identify  untapped  potential  in the multiple pay zones of these fields that
may  have  been  missed  over  the  years.  Results  in the  program  have  been
encouraging with a production increase of approximately 1,500 BOE per day having
been achieved  during 2001. The program will be continued  during 2002, but to a
lesser extent,  given lower commodity prices.  In addition to this project,  the
Company plans to drill a limited  number of  exploratory  prospects on the shelf
during 2002.

       Onshore Gulf Coast area.  The Company has focused its drilling efforts in
this area on the Pawnee  field in the  Edwards  Reef trend in South  Texas.  The
Company drilled eight development wells at Pawnee during 2001 and plans to drill
three more in the first quarter of 2002. Since the Company began this successful
program,  net production has more than tripled,  increasing from 11 MMcf per day
at the end of 1999 to 37 MMcf per day at the end of 2001.  The  Company  is also
continuing its development drilling in East Texas and is drilling an exploration
well in North  Louisiana.  Activities  in these areas will be scaled back during
2002 given the lower commodity price environment.

       International.  The Company's international operations are located in the
Neuquen and Austral  Basins areas of Argentina and the  Chinchaga,  Martin Creek
and  Lookout  Butte  areas  of  Canada.   Additionally,   the  Company's  fourth
significant  development  project,  the Sable oil field located in shallow water
offshore  South  Africa,  is scheduled for first  production in early 2003.  The
Company has also entered into  agreements to explore for oil and gas reserves in
South  Africa,  Gabon and Tunisia.  As of December 31,  2001,  approximately  17
percent,  four  percent and one percent of the  Company's  proved  reserves  are
located in Argentina, Canada and South Africa, respectively.


                                       18

<PAGE>



       Argentina.  The  Company's  share of  Argentine  production  during  2001
averaged  24.9  MBOE per day,  or  approximately  22  percent  of the  Company's
equivalent  production.  The  Company's  operated  production  in  Argentina  is
concentrated  in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of
Buenos  Aires  and  just to the  east of the  Andes  Mountains.  Oil and gas are
produced  primarily from the Loma Negra/NI  Block,  the Neuquen del Medio Block,
the Al Sur de la Dorsal Block and the Estacion  Fernandez Oro Block,  in each of
which the Company has a 100 percent working  interest.  During 2001, the Company
acquired a 100 percent working interest in the Anticlinal  Campamento  producing
field as well as two  exploration  blocks,  Cerro  Vagon and Dos  Hermanas.  The
Company  also  increased  its  interest  in  the La  Calera  and  Bajo  Baguales
exploration blocks during 2001.

       The production  concession in the Austral  Basin is located in Tierra del
Fuego,  which  is an  island  in the  extreme  southern  portion  of  Argentina,
approximately  1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires. Oil, gas and NGLs are produced
from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest.
Currently,  production is being sent to the mainland through oil tankers and gas
pipelines and exported to Chile through pipelines.  Also in the Austral Basin is
the  Company-operated  Lago Fuego Block,  which started  operations during 2001.
Production  from this block is mainly gas and NGLs which are sold to the city of
Ushuaia and other local markets. The Company holds a 50 percent working interest
in the Lago Fuego Block.

       During 2001, the Company expended $98.1 million on Argentine acquisition,
exploration and development  activities and drilled 20 development  wells and 42
extension/exploratory  wells in Argentina,  of which 19 development wells and 26
extension/exploratory   wells  were  successful.  The  Company  plans  to  spend
approximately  $15  million in  Argentina  during 2002 to  principally  complete
construction of its Loma Negra gas plant.  Other  significant  capital  projects
have been  suspended at this time due to the economic  instability  in Argentina
and the resulting devaluation of the Argentine peso.

       Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily
in Alberta and British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production during 2001 averaged 10.3
MBOE  per  day,  or  approximately  nine  percent  of the  Company's  equivalent
production.  The Company  continues to focus its  development,  exploration  and
acquisition  activities  in the core areas of  northeast  British  Columbia  and
southwest  Alberta.   The  Canadian  assets  are  geographically   concentrated,
predominantly  shallow  gas and more than 95 percent  operated by the Company in
the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte.

       Production  from the  Chinchaga area  in  northeast  British  Columbia is
relatively dry gas from  formation  depths  averaging  3,400 feet. In the Martin
Creek area of British  Columbia,  production is relatively  dry gas from various
reservoirs  ranging  from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet.  The  Lookout  Butte area in
southwest  Alberta  produces gas and condensate  from the  Mississippian  Turner
Valley formation at approximately  12,000 feet. The Company sold its interest in
the  Rycroft/Spirit  River area waterflood in northwest Alberta in December 2001
for approximately $12.0 million.

       During 2001,  the Company expended  $37.5 million on Canadian exploration
and development  activities and drilled 26 development  wells and 25 exploratory
wells primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which 24 development
wells and 12 exploratory wells were successful. Most of these wells were drilled
during the first quarter as these areas are only  accessible for drilling during
the winter months.  The Company,  as operator,  plans to drill  approximately 19
wells and expand  facility and compressor  capacity to 50 MMcf of gas per day at
the   Company-owned   Chinchaga  plant  during  2002.  The  Company  expects  to
participate in an additional  four wells operated by another company in the same
area.  The  Company  plans to spend  approximately  $25  million  on oil and gas
development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2002.

       Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for
oil and gas in South Africa,  Gabon and Tunisia.  The South  African  agreements
cover over 13 million acres along the southern coast of South Africa,  generally
in water  depths less than 650 feet.  The Gabon  agreement  covers over  314,000
acres off the coast of Gabon,  generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The
Tunisian  agreements  can be separated into two  categories.  The first includes
three  permits  covering 2.7 million acres  onshore  southern  Tunisia which the
Company  operates with a 50 percent  working  interest.  The second includes the
Anadarko-operated  Anaguid  permit  covering 1.1 million acres onshore  southern
Tunisia in which the Company has a 30 percent working interest. During 2001, the
Company  expended  $59.9 million of  acquisition,  development  and  exploration
drilling and  seismic capital in South Africa,  Gabon and  Tunisia.  The Company


                                       19

<PAGE>



drilled four  exploratory  wells in South Africa  during 2001, of which two were
successful. In addition, a successful exploratory well was drilled off the coast
of Gabon and a dry hole was drilled in Tunisia.

       South  Africa.  In  South  Africa,  the  Company  spent  $39.3 million of
drilling  and  seismic  capital  to  drill  two  wells  on its  Company-operated
Boomslang  prospect,  in which the  Company has a 49 percent  working  interest,
drill a gas  appraisal  well on the  Soekor-operated  E-BB  tract,  in which the
Company has a 40 percent working interest,  and acquire two 3-D seismic surveys.
The  initial  Boomslang  well  was  successful  while  the  appraisal  well  was
unsuccessful.  One of the two seismic  surveys was acquired  over the  Boomslang
trend area where several other prospects have been identified.  The Company will
continue to evaluate the commercial  feasibility of the Boomslang prospect using
this new 3-D data.  In  addition,  the Company  drilled and tested the E-BB2 gas
well in the center of the Bredasdorp Basin. Results of this well and other wells
drilled in this  trend are being  assessed  as part of a larger gas  development
project  that is currently  being  evaluated.  The Company  also  acquired a 3-D
seismic survey in the Port Elizabeth Trough Area of Block 14 during 2001. During
2002,  the seismic  data  acquired in 2001 will be analyzed and the results from
the  aforementioned  exploration  activities will continue to be evaluated.  The
Company currently plans to drill two exploration wells during 2002.

       During 2002,  the Company plans to complete its Sable development project
in South Africa with production  anticipated to begin in early 2003. Development
drilling is underway,  floating production facility upgrades are in progress and
subsea trees are being  manufactured.  Production for the first year is expected
to average  approximately  11,600  Bbls of oil per day net to the  Company's  40
percent working interest.

       Gabon. In Gabon,  the Company spent $11.4 million of drilling and seismic
capital to drill and test the initial  exploratory  well on its Bigorneau  South
prospect,  located  offshore in the  Southern  Gabon Basin on its Olowi  permit.
Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent working  interest.  The
Company has entered its  application to enter the Second  Exploration  Period on
the Olowi Permit, which requires two additional  exploratory wells to be drilled
over a two-year period.  Seismic evaluations  continue on this discovery and the
Company plans to drill two exploration wells and one appraisal well during 2002.

       Tunisia.  Plans  for  Tunisia in 2002  include a 3-D seismic survey to be
shot  over  the  three  operated  permits  as well as a  seismic  survey  in the
Anadarko-operated  Anaguid permit.  Based on the results and  interpretation  of
such seismic surveys, the Company expects to drill two to three wells in Tunisia
during 2002.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

       The following  tables set  forth selected oil and gas information for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2001,  2000 and 1999.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented below should not be interpreted as indicative
of future results.

                                       20

<PAGE>



       Production,  price  and  cost  data.   The  following  table  sets  forth
production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the
years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

                       PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)
<TABLE>

                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                   ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  2001                                  2000                                 1999
                   ------------------------------------  ------------------------------------  -----------------------------------
                    United                                United                                United
                    States  Argentina  Canada    Total    States  Argentina   Canada   Total    States  Argentina  Canada   Total
                   -------  ---------  ------   -------  -------  ---------   ------  -------  -------  ---------  ------  -------
<S>                <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>         <C>     <C>      <C>      <C>        <C>     <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
  Oil (MBbls)....    8,629     3,566      303    12,498    8,989     3,238       308   12,535   11,448     2,352    1,654   15,454
  NGLs (MBbls)...    7,232       200      368     7,800    7,883       193       303    8,379    8,714       217      306    9,237
  Gas (MMcf).....   77,609    31,830   18,426   127,865   83,930    35,695    16,219  135,844  106,094    34,477   17,886  158,457
  Total (MBOE)...   28,796     9,071    3,742    41,609   30,861     9,380     3,314   43,555   37,845     8,315    4,941   51,101
 Average daily production:
  Oil (Bbls).....   23,641     9,769      831    34,241   24,561     8,847       841   34,249   31,366     6,443     4,530   42,339
  NGLs (Bbls)....   19,815       547    1,008    21,370   21,538       527       829   22,894   23,875       594       839   25,308
  Gas (Mcf)......  212,629    87,204   50,481   350,314  229,316    97,526    44,315  371,157  290,670    94,457   49,003  434,130
  Total (BOE)....   78,894    24,851   10,253   113,997   84,318    25,628     9,056  119,002  103,686    22,780   13,536  140,002
Average prices, including hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl)..  $ 24.34   $ 23.79   $21.87   $ 24.12  $ 22.07    $29.09   $ 27.50  $ 24.01  $ 15.03    $18.41   $13.28  $ 15.36
  NGLs (per Bbl).  $ 16.88   $ 19.29   $21.11   $ 17.14  $ 20.05    $22.91   $ 24.32  $ 20.27  $ 11.61    $11.30   $12.62  $ 11.64
  Gas (per Mcf)..  $  4.10   $  1.31   $ 2.86   $  3.23  $  3.50    $ 1.19   $  2.88  $  2.81  $  2.17    $ 1.10    $ 1.82  $  1.90
  Revenue (per BOE)$ 22.56   $ 14.36   $17.94   $ 20.36  $ 21.04    $15.03   $ 18.85  $ 19.58  $ 13.28    $10.07   $11.81  $ 12.62
Average prices, excluding hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl)..  $ 24.56   $ 22.40   $21.87   $ 23.88  $ 28.76    $29.09   $ 27.50  $ 28.81  $ 16.20    $18.41   $13.28  $ 16.23
  NGLs (per Bbl).  $ 16.88   $ 19.29   $21.11   $ 17.14  $ 20.05    $22.91   $ 24.32  $ 20.27  $ 11.61    $11.30   $12.62  $ 11.64
  Gas (per Mcf)..  $  3.96   $  1.31   $ 3.27   $  3.20  $  3.73    $ 1.19   $  3.45  $  3.03  $  2.07    $ 1.10    $ 1.84  $  1.84
  Revenue (per BOE)$ 22.26   $ 13.81   $19.95   $ 20.21  $ 23.63    $15.03   $ 21.65  $ 21.63  $ 13.37    $10.07   $11.90  $ 12.69
Average costs:
 Production costs (per BOE):
  Lease operating  $  2.76   $  2.64   $ 3.01   $  2.76  $  2.45    $ 2.30   $  2.53  $  2.42  $  2.02    $ 2.04    $ 3.02  $  2.11
  Taxes:
    Production...      .98       .28      -         .74      .99       .30       -        .77      .49       .16       -        .39
    Ad valorem...      .71       -        -         .49      .41       -         -        .29      .41       -         -        .31
  Field fuel.....     1.27       -        -         .88     1.01       -         -        .71      .28       -         -        .21
  Workover.......      .20       .01      .32       .17      .17       -         .42      .15      .09       -         .34      .10
                     -----     -----     ----     -----    -----      ----     -----    -----    -----     -----      ----    -----
     Total.......  $  5.92   $  2.93   $ 3.33   $  5.04  $  5.03    $ 2.60   $  2.95  $  4.34  $  3.29    $ 2.20    $ 3.36  $  3.12
 Depletion expense
   (per BOE).....  $  4.46   $  5.67   $ 7.71   $  5.02  $  3.95    $ 5.56   $  7.58  $  4.57  $  4.06    $ 4.68    $ 5.18  $  4.27

- ---------------
<FN>
(a)  These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       21

<PAGE>



       Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999.

                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
<TABLE>

                                   Gross Productive Wells       Net Productive Wells
                                  ------------------------    ------------------------
                                    Oil     Gas      Total      Oil     Gas      Total
                                  ------   ------   ------    ------   ------   ------
<S>                               <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>
As of December 31, 2001:
   United States...............    3,485    1,931    5,416     2,116    1,613    3,729
   Argentina...................      669      162      831       454      132      586
   Canada......................        4      299      303         3      240      243
                                  ------   ------   ------    ------   ------   ------
      Total....................    4,158    2,392    6,550     2,573    1,985    4,558
                                  ======   ======   ======    ======   ======   ======
As of December 31, 2000:
   United States...............    3,577    1,847    5,424     2,166    1,550    3,716
   Argentina...................      575      211      786       434      154      588
   Canada......................       95      234      329        45      175      220
                                  ------   ------   ------    ------   ------   ------
      Total....................    4,247    2,292    6,539     2,645    1,879    4,524
                                  ======   ======   ======    ======   ======   ======
As of December 31, 1999:
   United States...............    3,835    2,244    6,079     2,558    1,736    4,294
   Argentina...................      514      199      713       376      142      518
   Canada......................      157      196      353        66      135      201
                                  ------   ------   ------    ------   ------   ------
      Total....................    4,506    2,639    7,145     3,000    2,013    5,013
                                  ======   ======   ======    ======   ======   ======
- ---------------
<FN>
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December 31, 2001, the Company owned interests in 76 gross wells containing
     multiple completions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

       Leasehold acreage.  The following table sets forth  information about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2001.

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>

                                      Developed Acreage           Undeveloped Acreage
                                  ------------------------     -------------------------     Royalty
                                  Gross Acres    Net Acres     Gross Acres     Net Acres     Acreage
                                  -----------    ---------     -----------    ----------    ---------
<S>                               <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>
As of December 31, 2001:
  United States................      914,114       720,189         818,715       655,332      219,130
  Argentina....................      674,000       278,000       1,154,000       991,000          -
  Canada.......................      153,000       110,000         350,000       252,000          -
  South Africa.................        9,600         3,840      13,625,400    12,266,160          -
  Gabon........................          -             -           313,937       313,937          -
  Tunisia......................          -             -         4,083,072     1,806,013          -
                                  ----------    ----------     -----------    ----------     --------
     Total.....................    1,750,714     1,112,029      20,345,124    16,284,442      219,130
                                  ==========    ==========     ===========    ==========     ========
</TABLE>

       Drilling activities.  The following  table sets forth the number of gross
and net  productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2001,  2000  and  1999.  This
information  should not be  considered  indicative  of future  performance,  nor
should it be assumed  that there is  necessarily  any  correlation  between  the
number  of  productive  wells  drilled  and the oil and gas  reserves  generated
thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of
dry wells.

                                       22

<PAGE>



                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES
<TABLE>

                                             Gross Wells                      Net Wells
                                      -------------------------      -------------------------
                                       Year Ended December 31,        Year Ended December 31,
                                      -------------------------      -------------------------
                                       2001      2000      1999       2001      2000      1999
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
<S>                                   <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
United States:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................      228       159       199      114.6      91.3     131.3
    Exploratory...................       20        11         7       11.0       4.7       4.6
  Dry holes:
    Development...................       15         3         1       14.6       1.9        .8
    Exploratory...................        8         3         7        5.1       1.6       2.7
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
                                        271       176       214      145.3      99.5     139.4
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
Argentina:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................       19        28        19       17.7      26.7      16.6
    Exploratory...................       26        38        25       25.5      37.6      24.1
  Dry holes:
    Development...................        1         2         3        1.0       2.0       3.0
    Exploratory...................       16        16         8       14.0      14.5       6.5
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
                                         62        84        55       58.2      80.8      50.2
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
Canada:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................       24        17        34       20.3      17.9      18.8
    Exploratory...................       12        12       -         10.2       9.9       -
  Dry holes:
    Development...................        2         4       -          2.0       2.5       -
    Exploratory...................       13         2         1       11.8       1.9        .3
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
                                         51        35        35       44.3      32.2      19.1
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
Other foreign:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................      -         -         -          -         -         -
    Exploratory...................        3       -         -          2.4       -         -
  Dry holes:
    Development...................      -         -         -          -         -         -
    Exploratory...................        3         1       -          1.9       1.0       -
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
                                          6         1       -          4.3       1.0       -
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     -----     -----
    Total.........................      390       296       304      252.1     213.5     208.7
                                      =====     =====     =====      =====     =====     =====

Success ratio (a).................      85%       90%       93%        80%       88%      94%
- ---------------
<FN>
(a)  Represents those wells that were successfully  completed as producing wells
     or wells capable of producing.
</FN>
</TABLE>

       The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells that
were in progress at December 31, 2001.
<TABLE>

                                                   Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                                   -----------    ---------
<S>                                                <C>            <C>
United States:
  Development.....................................       21            1.6
  Exploratory.....................................        3            1.2
                                                      -----         ------
                                                         24            2.8
                                                      -----         ------
Argentina:
  Development.....................................        1            1.0
  Exploratory.....................................        3            3.0
                                                      -----         ------
                                                          4            4.0
                                                      -----         ------
Canada:
  Development.....................................        5            5.0
  Exploratory.....................................        1            1.0
                                                      -----         ------
                                                          6            6.0
                                                      -----         ------
     Total........................................       34           12.8
                                                      =====         ======
</TABLE>

                                       23

<PAGE>



ITEM 3.        LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       The Company is  party to  various legal proceedings,  which are described
under "Legal  actions" in Note G of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  The claims for
damages  from such other  legal  actions  are not in excess of 10 percent of the
Company's  current  assets and the Company  believes none of these actions to be
material.

ITEM 4.        SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       The Company  did not  submit  any  matters to a  vote of security holders
during the fourth quarter of 2001.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.        MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
               MATTERS

       The Company's  common stock is  listed and  traded on the  New York Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock  Exchange  under the symbol "PXD".  The following
table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  the high and low sales prices for
the Company's common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite
transactions.  The Company's $575 million credit agreement restricts the Company
from paying or declaring dividends on common stock and certain other payments in
excess of an aggregate $50 million  annually.  The Company's  Board of Directors
did not declare  dividends to the holders of the  Company's  common stock during
2001 or 2000.
<TABLE>

                                                         High            Low
                                                      ---------       ---------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
2001
   Fourth quarter.................................    $   19.70       $   13.22
   Third quarter..................................    $   19.38       $   12.62
   Second quarter.................................    $   23.05       $   14.30
   First quarter..................................    $   20.24       $   15.45

2000
   Fourth quarter.................................    $   20.63       $   12.44
   Third quarter..................................    $   16.06       $   10.63
   Second quarter.................................    $   15.63       $    9.00
   First quarter..................................    $   10.75       $    6.75
</TABLE>

       On February 25,  2002,  the last  reported sales  price of the  Company's
common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions,
was $19.49 per share.

       As of  February  25,  2002,  the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 38,866 holders of record.


                                       24

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.        SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       The following selected consolidated financial data for the Company should
be read in  conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                   -----------------------------------------------------
                                                     2001       2000       1999       1998      1997 (a)
                                                   --------   --------   --------   --------   ---------
                                                           (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues:
    Oil and gas................................    $  847.0   $  852.7   $  644.6   $  711.5   $   536.8
    Interest and other (b).....................        21.8       25.8       89.7       10.4         4.3
    Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net..         7.7       34.2      (24.2)       (.4)        4.9
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
                                                      876.5      912.7      710.1      721.5       546.0
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production.....................       209.7      189.3      159.5      223.5       144.2
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization...       222.6      214.9      236.1      337.3       212.4
    Impairment of properties and facilities....         -          -         17.9      459.5     1,356.4
    Exploration and abandonments...............       127.9       87.5       66.0      121.9        77.2
    General and administrative.................        37.0       33.3       40.2       82.6        48.8
    Reorganization.............................         -          -          8.5       33.2         -
    Interest...................................       131.9      162.0      170.3      164.3        77.5
    Other (c)..................................        39.6       67.2       34.7       30.0         7.1
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
                                                      768.7      754.2      733.2    1,452.3     1,923.6
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
  Income (loss) before income taxes and
    extraordinary items........................       107.8      158.5      (23.1)    (730.8)   (1,377.6)
  Income tax benefit (provision)...............        (4.0)       6.0         .6      (15.6)      500.3
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
  Income (loss) before extraordinary items.....       103.8      164.5      (22.5)    (746.4)     (877.3)
  Extraordinary items..........................        (3.8)     (12.3)       -          -         (13.4)
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    --------
  Net income (loss)............................    $  100.0   $  152.2   $  (22.5)  $ (746.4)  $  (890.7)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
  Income (loss) before extraordinary items
   per share:
    Basic......................................    $   1.05   $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (16.88)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
    Diluted....................................    $   1.04   $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (16.88)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
  Net income (loss) per share:
    Basic......................................    $   1.01   $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (17.14)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
    Diluted....................................    $   1.00   $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (17.14)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
  Dividends per share .........................    $    -     $    -     $    -     $    .10   $     .10
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    ========
  Weighted average shares outstanding:
    Basic......................................        98.5       99.4      100.3      100.1        52.0
                                                    =======     ======    =======    =======     =======
    Diluted....................................        99.7       99.8      100.3      100.1        52.0
                                                    =======     ======    =======    =======     =======

Statement of Cash Flows Data:
  Cash flows from operating activities.........    $  475.6   $  430.1   $  255.2   $  314.1   $   228.2
  Cash flows from investing activities.........    $ (422.7)  $ (194.5)  $  199.0   $ (517.0)  $  (341.2)
  Cash flows from financing activities.........    $  (64.0)  $ (244.1)  $ (479.1)  $  190.9   $   166.0

Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Working capital (deficit) (d)................    $   27.4   $  (25.1)  $  (13.7)  $ (324.8)  $    46.6
  Property, plant and equipment, net...........    $2,784.3   $2,515.0   $2,503.0   $3,034.1   $ 3,515.8
  Total assets.................................    $3,271.1   $2,954.4   $2,929.5   $3,481.3   $ 4,153.0
  Long-term obligations........................    $1,743.7   $1,804.5   $1,914.5   $2,101.2   $ 2,124.0
  Total stockholders' equity...................    $1,285.4   $  904.9   $  774.6   $  789.1   $ 1,548.8
- ---------------
<FN>
(a)  Includes  amounts  relating  to the  acquisition  of Mesa Inc.  and Chauvco
     Resources Ltd. in August and December 1997, respectively.
(b)  1999 includes $41.8 million of option fees and liquidated damages and $30.2
     million of income associated with an excise tax refund.
(c)  Other  expense  for 2001  includes  $11.5  million,  $9.9  million and $7.7
     million of charges for changes in the fair values of  derivatives  excluded
     from hedge accounting  treatment;  Canadian gas marketing  losses;  and the
     remeasurement  of  Argentine   peso-denominated  net  monetary  assets  and
     adjustments  to  reduce  the  carrying  value of  Argentine  lease and well
     equipment inventory to market value, respectively.  Other expense for 2000,
     1999 and 1998 include  non-cash  mark-to-market  charges for changes in the
     fair values of non-hedge  financial  instruments  of $58.5  million,  $27.0
     million and $21.2 million, respectively.
(d)  The 1998  working  capital  deficit  includes  $306.5  million  of  current
     maturities of long-term debt.
</FN>
</TABLE>
                                       25

<PAGE>



ITEM 7.        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
               RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2001 Performance

       The year ended  December 31,  2001 was  highlighted by a  very successful
drilling  program which  further  complements  the  foundation  for  significant
production  growth  established by the Company's  drilling  program in 2000; the
continuation of the Company's  financial and operating  discipline that resulted
in a further decline in the Company's ratio of debt to book  capitalization from
64 percent as of  December  31, 2000 to 55 percent as of December  31,  2001;  a
$45.5  million,  or 11  percent,  increase  in net cash  provided  by  operating
activities  as compared to that of the  preceding  year;  the  repurchase  of an
additional  830,400 shares of the Company's common stock at an average per share
cost of $15.69; and a highly successful hedging program.

       During the years ended December 31,  2001 and 2000,  the Company recorded
net income of $100.0 and $152.2  million  ($1.00 and $1.53 per  diluted  share),
respectively, as compared to a net loss of $22.5 million ($.22 per share) during
the year ended  December 31, 1999.  Compared to 2000,  the Company's  2001 total
revenues decreased by $36.2 million,  or four percent,  including a $5.7 million
decrease in oil and gas  revenues.  The decrease in oil and gas revenues was due
to a four percent decline in BOE sales volumes, partially offset by increases in
average oil and gas prices. Compared to 2000, the Company's 2001 total costs and
expenses  increased by $14.5  million,  or 1.9 percent.  The modest  increase in
total costs and expenses  included a $40.4 million  increase in exploration  and
abandonments,  which is primarily  due to the  Company's  increased  exploration
program in 2001; a $30.0 million decrease in interest expense,  primarily due to
reductions in market interest rates and the interest savings associated with the
early  extinguishment  of the remaining 11-5/8 percent and 10-5/8 percent senior
subordinated  notes and $38.7 million of the 9-5/8 percent  senior notes;  and a
$27.6 million decrease in other expense,  primarily due to declines in non-hedge
derivative mark-to-market charges.

       During the year ended December 31,  2001,  the Company increased net cash
provided  by  operating  activities  to $475.6  million,  as  compared to $430.1
million during 2000 and $255.2 million during 1999. The  disciplined  investment
of net cash  provided by operating  activities,  together with proceeds from the
divestiture of non-strategic  assets of $113.5 million and $102.7 million during
2001 and 2000, respectively,  have allowed the Company to reduce its outstanding
indebtedness by $168.6 million during the two years ended December 31, 2001.

       During  2001,  the Company's  successful  capital  investment  activities
increased  proved  reserves to 671 MMBOE,  reflecting  the effects of  strategic
acquisitions  of  properties  in  the  Company's  core  operating  areas  and  a
successful  drilling program which resulted in the replacement of 208 percent of
production at an acquisition and finding cost per BOE of $7.49. During the three
years ended December 31, 2001, Pioneer has replaced 184 percent of production at
an  acquisition  and finding cost per BOE of $4.74.  Costs incurred for the year
ended  December 31, 2001 totaled  $646.6  million,  including  $170.8 million of
proved and unproved property  acquisitions and $475.8 million of exploration and
development drilling and seismic expenditures.

       During  December 2001,  the limited  partners of  42 of the  Company's 46
affiliated  partnerships approved an agreement and plan of merger among Pioneer,
Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.  ("Pioneer USA"), a wholly-owned  subsidiary
of Pioneer, and the participating partnerships.  As a result, those partnerships
merged with and into Pioneer USA. This strategic  acquisition  was funded by the
issuance  of 5.7 million  shares of common  stock  valued at $104.3  million and
increased proved reserves in the Company's  Spraberry oil field by approximately
29 MMBOE.

       During 2001,  the Company participated in discoveries at Falcon, Stirrup,
Oneida and Ozona  Deep  prospects  in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Olowi  Block
offshore Gabon. Additionally, exploration drilling confirmed the presence of gas
offshore South Africa.  The Company's  development  activities are  increasingly
focused on its "Big 4" development  projects:  the Canyon Express,  Devils Tower
and Falcon projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Sable project in the
shallow  waters  offshore South Africa.  The Company has budgeted  approximately
$180 million of 2002 development  expenditures for the Big 4 projects. See "Item
2. Properties" for additional  information regarding the Company's finding costs
and reserve replacement, property descriptions and drilling activities.


                                       26

<PAGE>




       See "Results of Operations",  below, for more in-depth discussions of the
Company's oil and gas producing activities,  including discussions pertaining to
oil and gas production volumes, prices, hedging activities,  costs and expenses,
capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity.

2002 Outlook

       Commodity   prices.   During   2001,   commodity  prices   declined  from
historically  high levels at the beginning of the year to historically  moderate
levels  by year  end.  The  Company's  outlook  for  2002  commodity  prices  is
uncertain.  Significant  factors that will impact 2002 commodity  prices include
the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
and other oil  exporting  nations are able to manage oil supply  through  export
quotas and the  overall  North  American  gas  supply  and demand  fundamentals.
Pioneer  will  continue  to moderate  its debt  levels,  follow cost  management
measures and  strategically  hedge oil and gas price risk to mitigate the impact
of price volatility on its oil, NGL and gas revenues.

       As of  December 31,  2001,  the Company had  hedged 9,463 barrels per day
("Bblpd") of 2002 oil production  under swap  contracts with a weighted  average
fixed price to be received of $26.23 per Bbl and 6,000 Bblpd of first and second
quarter 2002 oil  production  under collar  contracts  with a minimum or "floor"
price to be  received of $25.00 per Bbl and a maximum or  "ceiling"  price to be
received of $28.61 per Bbl.  The  Company  had also  hedged  165,205 Mcf per day
("Mcfpd") of 2002 gas production  under swap  contracts with a weighted  average
fixed  price to be  received  of $4.19 per MMBtu  and  20,000  Mcfpd of 2002 gas
production  under collar  contracts  with a floor price of $4.50 per MMBtu and a
ceiling price of $6.00 per MMBtu.  During January and February 2002, the Company
increased  its 2002  commodity  hedge  positions by entering into 4,000 Bblpd of
July through  December oil swap  contracts  with average per Bbl fixed prices of
$21.55,  50,000 Mcfpd of April through December costless collar contracts having
floor  prices of $2.40 per MMBtu and average  ceiling  prices of $3.08 per MMBtu
and 50,000 Mcfpd of August through  December  costless collar  contracts  having
floor  prices  of  $2.50  per  MMBtu  and  ceiling  prices  of  $3.25 per MMBtu.
Additionally, the Company has deferred oil hedge gains of $3.9 million that will
be  recognized  as oil  revenue  during  the first six  months of 2002 and $46.2
million of  deferred  gas hedge  losses that will be  recognized  as gas revenue
during 2002. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included
in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  additional
information  regarding the Company's  open hedge  positions at December 31, 2001
and  their  related  prices.  Also see "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative
Disclosures  About Market Risk" for  additional  disclosure  about the Company's
commodity related derivative financial instruments.

       First quarter 2002.  Based on current estimates, the Company expects that
its first quarter  worldwide  production will average 108,000 to 110,000 BOE per
day. First quarter  production  costs are expected to average $4.60 to $4.90 per
BOE based on recent NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation,  depletion
and  amortization  expense is  expected to average  $5.15 to $5.30 per BOE,  and
total  exploration and abandonment  expense is expected to be $15 million to $30
million. General and administrative expense is expected to be $11 million to $12
million during the first quarter of 2002, which is higher than in prior quarters
due to a reduction in overhead  reimbursements  from the 42  affiliated  limited
partnerships  that were acquired in December 2001.  Interest expense is expected
to be $30 million to $32 million  during the first  quarter of 2002.  Cash taxes
are  expected  to range from $1 million to $2 million,  as the Company  benefits
from the  carryforward of prior years' net operating losses in the United States
and  Canada.  For the first  quarter  of 2002,  costs  incurred  for oil and gas
producing activities is expected to range from $90 million to $100 million.

       Pioneer continues to  monitor the  political and  economic environment in
Argentina.  The Company's production forecasts have been adjusted to reflect the
postponement  of drilling in the country.  In addition,  the  devaluation of the
Argentine  peso is  expected  to result in a near-term  reduction  in  revenues,
partially offset by a reduction in operating and  administrative  costs; and the
recognition  of  remeasurement  gains or  losses,  the  impact  of which  cannot
currently be accurately  estimated.  For the fourth  quarter of 2001,  Argentina
represented  15  percent,  or $18.9  million,  of  Pioneer's  net cash flow from
oil and gas operations.

       Production growth.  The Company  expects that its  annual 2002  worldwide
production will be approximately 42 to 44 MMBOE, including approximately 3 MMBOE
of initial production from Canyon Express facilities during the last half of the
year.  Worldwide  production  in  2003  and  2004 is  expected  to  increase  as
production commences  from the Company's deepwater Gulf of Mexico Falcon gas and

                                       27

<PAGE>



Devils  Tower oil projects  and the Sable oil project in South  Africa,  coupled
with a full year of  production  from  Canyon  Express.  The  Company  currently
anticipates  that daily  production  rates, on a BOE basis,  will increase by 55
percent to 60 percent  from the first  quarter of 2002 to  mid-2003,  once these
projects are all producing.

       Capital expenditures.  During 2002,  the Company  plans to decrease costs
incurred for oil and gas producing  activities to approximately $375 million, of
which  approximately  $90  million,  or  24  percent,   has  been  budgeted  for
exploration  expenditures and $285 million, or 76 percent, has been budgeted for
development  drilling and facility  costs.  The Company's 2002 capital budget is
allocated  approximately  72  percent  to the  United  States,  four  percent to
Argentina,  seven percent to Canada and 17 percent to Africa. The Company's 2002
capital  budget for the  United  States  includes  $135  million of  development
capital for the Canyon Express, Falcon and Devils Tower deepwater Gulf of Mexico
projects.  During 2002, the Company has planned exploration drilling in the Gulf
of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast area, Canada, Gabon, Tunisia and South Africa.
During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, the Company expects to expend
approximately  $130  million  and $115  million,  respectively,  of capital  for
development  drilling  and  facility  costs  related to its  proved  undeveloped
reserves.

Critical Accounting Policies

       The Company prepares its  consolidated financial statements for inclusion
in this Report in  accordance  with  accounting  principles  that are  generally
accepted  in the United  States  ("GAAP").  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a  comprehensive  discussion of the Company's  significant  accounting
policies. GAAP represents a comprehensive set of accounting and disclosure rules
and requirements,  the application of which requires  management  judgements and
estimates including,  in certain circumstances,  choices between acceptable GAAP
alternatives.   Following  is  a  discussion  of  the  Company's  most  critical
accounting  policies,  judgements  and  uncertainties  that are  inherent in the
Company's application of GAAP:

       Accounting for oil and gas  producing activities.  The accounting for and
disclosure of oil and gas producing activities requires the Company's management
to choose between GAAP  alternatives  and to make judgements  about estimates of
future uncertainties.

       Successful  efforts  method  of  accounting.  The  Company  utilizes  the
successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing  activities as
opposed to the alternate  acceptable full cost method.  In general,  the Company
believes that, during periods of active  exploration,  net assets and net income
(loss) are more  conservatively  measured under the successful efforts method of
accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method.
The critical  difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and
the full  cost  method  is as  follows:  under the  successful  efforts  method,
exploratory  dry holes and  geological  and  geophysical  exploration  costs are
charged  against  net  income  (loss)  during the  periods in which they  occur;
whereas,  under the full cost method of accounting,  such costs and expenses are
capitalized  as assets,  pooled with the costs of  successful  wells and charged
against  the net income  (loss) of future  periods as a component  of  depletion
expense. During 2001, the Company recognized exploration and abandonment expense
of $127.9  million,  $87.6 million and $66.0  million,  respectively,  under the
successful efforts method.

       Proved  reserve  estimates.  Estimates of the  Company's  proved reserves
included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines.
The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

       o      the quality and quantity of available data;
       o      the interpretation of that data;
       o      the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and
       o      the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

       The Company's proved reserve information included in this Report is based
on estimates it prepared.  Estimates prepared  by others  may be higher or lower
than the Company's estimates.


                                       28

<PAGE>



       Because  these  estimates  depend on many assumptions,  all of  which may
substantially  differ from actual  results,  reserve  estimates may be different
from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately  recovered.  In addition,
results of drilling,  testing and  production  after the date of an estimate may
justify material revisions to the estimate.

       The Company's  stockholders should not  assume that the  present value of
future net cash flows is the current  market  value of the  Company's  estimated
proved  reserves.  In accordance  with SEC  requirements,  the Company based the
estimated  discounted  future net cash flows from proved  reserves on prices and
costs on the  date of the  estimate.  Actual  future  prices  and  costs  may be
materially  higher  or lower  than the  prices  and  costs as of the date of the
estimate.

       The Company's  estimates of proved  reserves  materially impact depletion
expense.  If the  estimates of proved  reserves  decline,  the rate at which the
Company records depletion expense increases, reducing net income. Such a decline
may result from lower market  prices,  which may make it uneconomic to drill for
and produce  higher cost  fields.  In  addition,  the decline in proved  reserve
estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's  assessment of its oil and gas
producing properties for impairment.

       Impairment of  proved oil and gas  properties.  The  Company  reviews its
long-lived proved properties to be held and used whenever management judges that
events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  the  recorded  carrying  value of the
properties  may  not  be  recoverable.  Management  assesses  whether  or not an
impairment  provision is  necessary  based upon  management's  outlook of future
commodity  prices and net cash flows that may be  generated  by the  properties.
Proved oil and gas properties  are reviewed for  impairment by depletable  pool,
which is the lowest level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated.

       Impairment of  unproved oil and gas properties.  Management  periodically
assesses   individually   significant   unproved  oil  and  gas  properties  for
impairment,  on a  project-by-project  basis.  Management's  assessment  of  the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or expiration  of all or a portion of such projects  impact the amount and
timing of impairment provisions.

       Assessments  of   functional   currencies.   Management   determines  the
functional  currencies of the Company's  subsidiaries  based on an assessment of
the  currency  of the  economic  environment  in  which a  subsidiary  primarily
realizes and expends its operating revenues, costs and expenses. The U.S. dollar
is the  functional  currency of all of the  Company's  international  operations
except Canada.  The  assessment of functional  currencies can have a significant
impact on periodic results of operations and financial position.

       Argentine  economic  and  currency  measures.   The  accounting  for  and
remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine  balance sheet as of December 31, 2001
reflects  management's   assumptions  regarding  some  uncertainties  unique  to
Argentina's  current  economic  situation.  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a description of the assumptions  utilized in the preparation of these
financial  statements.  The Argentine economic and political situation continues
to evolve and the Argentine  government may enact future regulations or policies
that, when finalized and adopted,  may materially impact, among other items, (i)
the realized  prices the Company  receives for the  commodities  it produces and
sells as a result of new  export  taxes or  higher  production  taxes;  (ii) the
timing  of  repatriations  of  excess  cash  flow  to  the  Company's  corporate
headquarters  in the United States;  (iii) the Company's asset  valuations;  and
(iv) peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities.

       Deferred  tax asset  valuations.  Management  periodically  assesses  the
probability of recovery of recorded  deferred tax assets based on its assessment
of future earnings outlooks by tax  jurisdiction.  Such estimates are inherently
imprecise since many  assumptions are utilized in the assessments that may prove
to be incorrect in the future.

New Accounting Pronouncement

       The  Financial  Accounting  Standards Board  ("FASB") periodically issues
Statements of Financial  Accounting  Standards,  which  represent  changes in or
additions to GAAP.  During the year ended  December  31,  2001,  the FASB issued
Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset
Retirement  Obligations"  ("SFAS 143").  SFAS 143 amends  Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas
Producing  Companies"  ("SFAS 19") to require that the fair value of a liability
for an  asset  retirement obligation be  recognized in the period in which it is

                                       29

<PAGE>



incurred  if a  reasonable  estimate  of  fair  value  can be  made.  Under  the
provisions of SFAS 143, such asset  retirement  costs are capitalized as part of
the carrying  value of the  long-lived  asset.  Under the provisions of SFAS 19,
asset retirement obligations are recognized using a cost-accumulation  approach.
The Company currently records  significant asset retirement  obligations through
the  unit-of-production  method, except for such liabilities assumed in business
combinations,  which are recorded at their estimated fair values. The provisions
of SFAS 143 are  effective  for  financial  statements  issued for fiscal  years
beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS
143 no later than January 1, 2003. The Company does not expect that the adoption
of SFAS 143 will have a significant  impact on its future financial  position or
results of operations.

Results of Operations

       Oil and gas revenues. Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $847.0
million  during  2001,  as  compared  to $852.7  million  during 2000 and $644.6
million during 1999,  representing a .7 percent decrease from 2000 to 2001 and a
32 percent increase from 1999 to 2000. The revenue decrease from 2000 to 2001 is
due to a four percent  decline in BOE sales volumes and a 15 percent  decline in
NGL price, partially offset by a 15 percent increase in gas price, including the
effects  of gas  hedges.  The  revenue  increase  from  1999  to  2000  reflects
year-to-year  increases in average  reported  commodity  prices,  including  the
effects of commodity hedges,  of 56 percent,  74 percent and 48 percent for oil,
NGL and gas,  respectively,  partially  offset by a 15 percent  decrease  in BOE
production.  The declines in production  were primarily  attributable  to normal
well production declines and 1999 asset  divestitures.  Excluding the production
associated with assets divested during 2000 and 1999, BOE production declined by
approximately one percent during 2000 as compared to 1999.

       The following  table provides  production and  price data relevant to the
analysis of the Company's revenues from oil and gas operations:
<TABLE>
                                                          Year ended December 31,
                                                      ------------------------------
                                                        2001       2000       1999
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
   Production:
     Oil (MBbls).................................       12,498     12,535     15,454
     NGLs (MBbls)................................        7,800      8,379      9,237
     Gas (MMcf)..................................      127,865    135,843    158,457
     Total (MBOE)................................       41,609     43,555     51,101
   Average daily production:
     Oil (Bbls)..................................       34,241     34,249     42,339
     NGLs (Bbls).................................       21,370     22,894     25,308
     Gas (Mcf)...................................      350,314    371,157    434,130
     Total (BOE).................................      113,997    119,002    140,002
   Average reported prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  24.34   $  22.07   $  15.03
       Argentina.................................     $  23.79   $  29.09   $  18.41
       Canada....................................     $  21.87   $  27.50   $  13.28
       Worldwide.................................     $  24.12   $  24.01   $  15.36
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  16.88   $  20.05   $  11.61
       Argentina.................................     $  19.29   $  22.91   $  11.30
       Canada....................................     $  21.11   $  24.32   $  12.62
       Worldwide.................................     $  17.14   $  20.27   $  11.64
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States.............................     $   4.10   $   3.50   $   2.17
       Argentina.................................     $   1.31   $   1.19   $   1.10
       Canada....................................     $   2.86   $   2.88   $   1.82
       Worldwide.................................     $   3.23   $   2.81   $   1.90
     Percentage increase (decrease) in average
      worldwide reported prices:
       Oil.......................................          -           56         17
       NGL.......................................          (15)        74         31
       Gas.......................................           15         48          4
</TABLE>

                                       30

<PAGE>



       Hedging activities.  The oil and gas  prices that the Company reports are
based on the market price received for the  commodities  adjusted by the results
of the Company's hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity  derivative
contracts  (swaps  and  collars)  in order to (i)  reduce  the  effect  of price
volatility on the commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the
Company's annual capital  budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce price
risk  associated  with  certain  capital  projects.  See  Note  H  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data"  for  information  concerning  the  impact  to oil  and gas
revenues during 2001, 2000 and 1999 from the Company's hedging  activities,  the
Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2001 and their related prices and
descriptions of the Company's hedge and non-hedge  commodity  derivatives.  Also
see "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for
additional disclosure about the Company's commodity related derivative financial
instruments.

       Interest and  other revenue.  The  Company  recorded  interest  and other
income  totaling  $21.8 million,  $25.8 million and $89.7 during 2001,  2000 and
1999  respectively.  The  Company's  interest  and other  income is comprised of
revenue that is not directly attributable to oil and gas producing activities or
oil and gas  property  divestitures.  The  significant  decrease in interest and
other income during 2000 is primarily attributable to a non-recurring excise tax
refund  of  $30.2  million  and a  non-recurring  option  fee of  $41.8  million
recognized  by the  Company  during  1999.  See Note J of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding interest and other income.

       Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.  During the year ended December 31,
2001,  the  Company   realized  $113.5  million  of  cash  proceeds  from  asset
divestitures and, associated therewith,  recorded net gains of $7.7 million. The
proceeds derived from asset divestitures during 2001 included $85.4 million from
the early termination of hedge  derivatives,  $12.7 million from the sale of the
Company's  remaining  holdings in the common stock of a  non-affiliated  entity,
$12.0 million from the sale of certain oil properties in Canada and $3.3 million
from the sale of other corporate assets. The proceeds from the early termination
of hedge derivatives  represent  deferred hedge gains that will be recognized as
increases  to oil and gas  revenues  in future  periods  (see Note H of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data"). The Company recorded a gain of $8.1 million from the sale
of the remaining holdings in the common stock of the non-affiliated entity and a
loss of $1.1  million  and a gain of $.7  million  from the sales of oil and gas
properties and other corporate assets, respectively.

       During 2000,  the Company completed the divestiture of certain assets for
proceeds of $102.7 million.  Associated  therewith,  the Company  recorded a net
gain on disposition of assets of $34.2 million.  The 2000 divestitures  included
the sale of common  stock of a  non-affiliated  entity for net proceeds of $59.7
million,  from which the Company  recognized a gain on  disposition of assets of
$34.3  million.  The Company also sold certain oil and gas producing  properties
and other  assets  during  2000 for  proceeds of $43.0  million,  from which the
Company recognized a loss on disposition of assets of $.1 million.

       During 1999,  the  Company  realized  proceeds from asset divestitures of
$420.5  million  and  recognized  a net loss on  disposition  of assets of $24.2
million.

       The net cash proceeds from asset divestitures during 2001,  2000 and 1999
were used,  together with net cash flows  provided by operating  activities,  to
finance  strategic  additions to oil and gas properties,  to reduce  outstanding
indebtedness  and  other for  general  corporate  needs.  See Note K of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

       Production costs.  Total production  costs per  BOE increased in 2001 and
2000 by 16 percent and 39 percent,  respectively.  In general,  lease  operating
expenses and workover expenses represent the components of production costs over
which the Company has management  control,  while  production  taxes, ad valorem
taxes and field fuel expenses are directly  related to commodity  price changes.
The increase in  production  costs during 2001 is primarily  due to increases in
field fuel  expense as a result of higher  North  American  average  gas prices,
higher ad valorem  taxes  which are  computed  using prior year  average  annual
commodity  prices and to declines in the third party gas processing and treating
margin component of lease operating expenses. The increase in per BOE production
costs in 2000 as compared to 1999 is primarily due to  significant  increases in
those expenses  that are directly  related to commodity prices and,  to a lesser

                                       31

<PAGE>



extent,  inflation in field service  expenses.  The following table provides the
components of the Company's production costs during the years ended December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                    --------------------------
                                                     2001      2000      1999
                                                    ------    ------    ------
                                                             (per BOE)

<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>
     Lease operating expenses....................   $ 2.76    $ 2.42    $ 2.11
     Taxes:
       Production................................      .74       .77       .39
       Ad valorem ...............................      .49       .29       .31
     Field fuel expenses.........................      .88       .71       .21
     Workover expenses...........................      .17       .15       .10
                                                     -----     -----     -----
           Total production costs................   $ 5.04    $ 4.34    $ 3.12
                                                     =====     =====     =====
</TABLE>

       Depletion,  depreciation and  amortization expense.  The Company's  total
depletion,  depreciation and amortization  expense per BOE was $5.35,  $4.93 and
$4.62  for the years  ended  December  31,  2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.
Depletion  expense,  the  largest  component  of  depletion,   depreciation  and
amortization, was $5.02, $4.57 and $4.27 per BOE during the years ended December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,  respectively,  and  depreciation  and  amortization of
other property and equipment was $.33,  $.36 and $.35 per BOE during each of the
respective  years.  During 2001,  the increase in per BOE  depletion  expense is
primarily  associated  with decreases in United States  production,  which has a
lower cost basis relative to combined Argentine and Canadian per BOE cost basis,
and to downward  revisions  to proved  reserves  as a result of lower  commodity
prices.  The increase in per BOE depletion  expense during 2000 is primarily due
to an increase in the Company's  Argentine and Canadian proved property basis as
a result of reclassifying  unproved property basis associated with the Company's
exploration  and extension  drilling  success to proved property and to a higher
proportionate share of the Company's production being produced from Argentina.

       Impairment  of oil  and gas  properties.  The Company  reviews its proved
properties for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate a decline in
the  recoverability  of the  carrying  value of the  Company's  assets  may have
occurred.

       The Company  periodically assesses  its unproved  properties to determine
whether  they have been  impaired.  An unproved  property may be impaired if the
Company does not intend to drill the prospect as a result of downward  revisions
to potential  reserves,  if the results of exploration or the Company's  outlook
for  future  commodity  prices  indicate  that the  potential  reserves  are not
sufficient to generate net cash flows to recover the investment  required by the
project,  or if the  Company  intends  to sell the  property  for less  than its
carrying  value.  The  Company  regularly  assesses  its  unproved  oil  and gas
properties  for  impairment  and,  during  the year  ended  December  31,  1999,
recognized a non-cash  impairment charge of $17.9 million to reduce the carrying
value of its  unproved  East  Texas  gas  properties.  See  Critical  Accounting
Policies above and Notes B and L of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional
information   pertaining  to  the  Company's   accounting   policies   regarding
assessments of impairment and specific  information about the 1999 impairment of
unproved properties.

       Exploration   and   abandonments/geological    and   geophysical   costs.
Exploration and  abandonments/geological  and  geophysical  costs totaled $127.9
million, $87.6 million and $66.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,

                                       32

<PAGE>



2000 and 1999,  respectively.  The following  table sets forth the components of
the Company's 2001, 2000 and 1999  exploration and  abandonments/geological  and
geophysical costs:
<TABLE>

                                                    United                             Other
                                                    States    Argentina    Canada     Foreign     Total
                                                   --------   ---------   --------   ---------   --------
                                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
       Year Ended December 31, 2001:
         Geological and geophysical costs.......   $ 29,620    $  6,541   $  2,373    $ 13,678   $ 52,212
         Exploratory dry holes..................     34,883       6,040      5,473      10,432     56,828
         Leasehold abandonments and other.......      5,546      11,276      2,036           8     18,866
                                                     ------      ------    -------     -------    -------
                                                   $ 70,049    $ 23,857   $  9,882    $ 24,118   $127,906
                                                    =======     =======    =======     =======    =======
       Year Ended December 31, 2000:
         Geological and geophysical costs.......   $ 22,033    $  6,881   $  2,273    $  7,761   $ 38,948
         Exploratory dry holes..................     11,745       6,987        887       8,396     28,015
         Leasehold abandonments and other.......      7,089      11,520      1,971           7     20,587
                                                     ------      ------    -------     -------    -------
                                                   $ 40,867    $ 25,388   $  5,131    $ 16,164   $ 87,550
                                                    =======     =======    =======     =======    =======
       Year Ended December 31, 1999:
         Geological and geophysical costs.......   $ 17,207    $  3,399   $    315    $  7,498   $ 28,419
         Exploratory dry holes..................     15,591       3,441        978        (275)    19,735
         Leasehold abandonments and other.......      8,427       7,169      2,216           8     17,820
                                                     ------      ------    -------     -------    -------
                                                   $ 41,225    $ 14,009   $  3,509    $  7,231   $ 65,974
                                                    =======     =======    =======     =======    =======
</TABLE>

       The increase in 2001 exploration costs, as compared to 2000, is primarily
due to increased  geological and geophysical costs that are supportive of future
exploratory  drilling,  increased exploratory drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and
Argentina and an exploratory  dry hole drilled in Tunisia.  The increase in 2000
exploration costs, as compared to 1999, is primarily due to increased geological
and  geophysical  costs,   unproved  leasehold   abandonments   associated  with
exploratory  dry  holes  in  Argentina  and  dry  hole  costs   associated  with
exploratory drilling in South Africa.  Approximately 34 percent of the Company's
2001 costs incurred for oil and gas producing  activities were exploration costs
as compared to 38 percent in 2000 and 32 percent in 1999.

       Administrative and reorganization expenses.  The Company's administrative
expense  totaled $37.0 million ($.89 per BOE),  $33.3 million ($.76 per BOE) and
$40.2 million ($.79 per BOE) during the years ended December 31, 2001,  2000 and
1999. The increase in  administrative  expense during 2001, as compared to 2000,
is primarily due to an increase in compensation  expense. The decline in per BOE
administrative  expense  during  2000  was  due to the  reorganization  measures
initiated by the Company during 1998 and completed in 1999. Those reorganization
measures included the centralization in Irving, Texas of certain operational and
administrative functions previously based in Midland, Texas; the closings of the
Company's regional offices in Oklahoma City,  Oklahoma,  Corpus Christi,  Texas,
and Houston,  Texas; workforce reductions;  and, other initiatives.  As a direct
result of those measures, the Company recognized  reorganization charges of $8.5
million during 1999. See Note M of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" for specific
information regarding  reorganization costs paid during 2001, 2000 and 1999, and
unpaid reorganization costs as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

         Interest expense.  Interest expense was $132.0 million,  $162.0 million
and  $170.3  million  for the years  ended  December  31,  2001,  2000 and 1999,
respectively.  Interest expense  decreased during 2001, as compared to 2000, due
to a decrease in the Company's  weighted average borrowing rate and the interest
savings  associated with the early  extinguishment of the Company's  outstanding
11-5/8  percent  and  10-5/8  percent  senior  notes  and $38.7  million  of the
Company's 9-5/8 percent senior notes. Interest expense decreased during 2000, as
compared to 1999,  primarily due to a decrease in the Company's weighted average
debt outstanding for the year. This decline was offset,  to a certain extent, by
higher interest rates in 2000 as compared to 1999.

       Other  expenses.  Other  expenses  were  $39.6  million  during  2001, as
compared to $67.2  million  during 2000 and $34.6  million  during  1999.  Other
expenses in 2001 include $11.4 million of commodity derivative  settlements that
did not qualify for hedge  treatment  under  Statement of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities";  $9.9 million of marketing  losses  incurred to transport  and sell
purchased  Canadian  gas to a Chicago,  Illinois  sales  point;  $7.7 million of
losses from the  remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine peso-denominated  net
monetary  assets and an  adjustment  to reduce the  carrying  value of Argentine
lease  and  well equipment  inventory to  market  value  (see  Note B of Note to

                                       33

<PAGE>



Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary    Data"   for   additional    information    regarding   currency
remeasurement); $6.0 million of bad debt expense related to derivative contracts
with Enron North America Corp. and $4.6 million of other expenses.

       The increase  in other expenses  during 2000,  as  compared to  1999,  is
primarily  attributable to  increases in mark-to-market  provisions on non-hedge
derivative  financial  instruments.  Such mark-to-market  provisions during 2000
included $42.0 million  associated  with non-hedge  commodity  derivatives  that
matured in December 2000, $14.6 million associated with the Company's  non-hedge
Btu swap  agreements  and $1.9  million  associated  with a series of  non-hedge
forward  foreign  exchange  swap  agreements  that  matured  in  December  2000.
Mark-to-market  provisions  in  1999  included  $21.2  million  associated  with
non-hedge commodity  derivatives and $11.9 million associated with an investment
in the common stock of a non-affiliated public entity,  partially offset by $5.9
million of  mark-to-market  income  recognized  on a series of  forward  foreign
exchange swap agreements and income of $.2 million associated with the Company's
Btu swap agreements.

       During 2001,  the Company  entered into  offsetting swap  agreements that
have fixed the prices that are to be received and paid by the Company  under the
Btu swap  agreements.  Consequently,  the fair values of the  Company's Btu swap
agreements,  which  represent  a  discounted  liability  to the Company of $19.4
million as of December 31, 2001,  are no longer  sensitive to the changes in oil
or gas commodity prices. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures
About  Market  Risk"  and  Notes  C and H of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
specific   disclosures   pertaining  to  the  Company's   derivative   financial
instruments.

       Income tax provisions (benefits).  The Company  recognized a consolidated
income tax  provision of $4.0 million  during 2001 and  consolidated  income tax
benefits of $6.0  million and $.6 million  during 2000 and 1999.  The  Company's
consolidated  tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2001 is comprised of
current  U.S.  state  and  local  taxes of $1.1  million;  current  foreign  tax
provision of $10.5 million;  and deferred  foreign tax benefits of $7.6 million.
The Company's  consolidated  tax benefit in 2000 is comprised of a $10.6 million
deferred tax benefit in Argentina,  partially  offset by $4.6 million of current
taxes paid in Argentina. Due to uncertainties regarding the Company's ability to
realize net operating loss carryovers and tax credit  carryovers  prior to their
scheduled  expirations,  the  Company  did not  recognize  deferred  income  tax
benefits associated with its operating results for 1999. Although realization is
not  assured  for the  Company's  remaining  deferred  tax  assets,  the Company
believes it is more likely  than not that they will be realized  through  future
taxable  earnings or  alternative  tax  planning  strategies.  However,  the net
deferred  tax assets  could be  reduced  further if the  Company's  estimate  of
taxable income in future  periods is  significantly  reduced or alternative  tax
planning  strategies are no longer viable. As a result of this situation,  it is
likely that the Company's effective tax rate in 2002 will be minimal. See Note O
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding  the Company's
income taxes and deferred tax asset valuation reserves.

       Extraordinary items.  The Company redeemed the remaining $22.5 million of
its outstanding  11-5/8 percent senior  subordinated  discount notes due July 1,
2006 and $6.8 million of its  outstanding  10-5/8  percent  senior  subordinated
notes due July 1, 2006 during July 2001, and redeemed $38.7 million of its 9-5/8
percent  senior  notes due April 1, 2010  during  the  fourth  quarter  of 2001.
Associated with these redemptions, the Company recognized an extraordinary loss,
net of taxes, of $3.8 million during 2001. During 2000, the Company replaced its
prior credit facility,  which was scheduled to mature August 7, 2002, with a new
$575  million   corporate  credit  facility  due  March  1,  2005  (the  "Credit
Agreement").  Associated  therewith,  the  Company  recognized  a $12.3  million
extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

       Capital  commitments.  The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of contractual obligations and working capital obligations.

       Oil and gas properties.  The Company's cash expenditures for additions to
oil and gas properties during 2001, 2000 and 1999 totaled $529.7 million, $299.7
million and $179.7 million,  respectively.  The Company's 2001 expenditures were
internally funded by $475.6 million of net cash provided by operating activities
and a portion  of the  Company's $113.5  million of proceeds from disposition of

                                       34

<PAGE>



assets. The Company's 2000 and 1999 capital  expenditures were internally funded
by net cash provided by operating activities.

       The Company strives to  maintain its indebtedness  at moderate  levels in
order to provide  sufficient  financial  flexibility to take advantage of future
opportunities.  The Company's $375 million capital budget for 2002 includes $180
million of  expenditures  for the  development of the Company's  Canyon Express,
Devils Tower, Falcon and Sable projects which may cause capital  expenditures to
exceed internally generated cash flows. To the extent that the Company's capital
expenditures  during 2002 exceed cash  provided  by  operating  activities,  the
Company may increase its outstanding  indebtedness by utilizing unused borrowing
capacity under its Credit Agreement or, alternatively, the Company may use other
sources of capital as described in "Capital resources" below.

       Contractual  obligations.  The Company's contractual  obligations include
long-term debt,  operating  leases,  Btu swap agreements,  terminated  commodity
hedges  and other  contracts.  Contractual  obligations  for which the  ultimate
settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable  include derivative  contracts
that are  sensitive to future  changes in commodity  prices,  currency  exchange
rates and interest rates. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About  Market  Risk" for a table of changes  in the fair value of the  Company's
derivative  contract assets and  liabilities  during the year ended December 31,
2001. The following  table  summarizes the Company's  payments due by period for
fixed and determinable contractual obligations:
<TABLE>
                                                          Payments Due by Year
                                              ------------------------------------------------
                                                2002     2003-2004   2005-2006    Thereafter
                                              --------   ---------   ----------   -----------
                                                             (in thousands)

<S>                                           <C>        <C>         <C>          <C>
       Long-term debt (a).................    $    -     $    -      $ 445,998    $1,121,306
       Operating leases (b)...............       5,942     63,919       46,230        28,538
       Btu swap agreements (c)............       7,175     14,358          -             -
       Terminated commodity hedges (c)....      30,209        -            -             -
                                               -------    -------     --------     ---------
                                              $ 43,326   $ 78,277    $ 492,228    $1,149,844
                                               =======    =======     ========     =========
- ------------
<FN>
(a)  See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
     "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(b)  See Note G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
     "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(c)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
     "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
</FN>
</TABLE>

       Working capital. Funding for the Company's working capital obligations is
provided  by  internally-generated  cash  flow.  Funding  for the  repayment  of
principal and interest on outstanding debt and the Company's capital expenditure
program may be provided by any  combination of  internally-generated  cash flow,
proceeds from the disposition of  non-strategic assets or alternative  financing
sources as discussed in "Capital resources" below.

       Capital resources.  The Company's primary  capital resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 2002.

       Operating activities.  Net cash provided by  operating activities  during
2001,  2000 and 1999 were $475.6  million,  $430.1  million and $255.2  million,
respectively.  During 2001, net cash provided by operating  activities increased
by $45.5  million,  or 11 percent,  as compared to that of 2000. The increase in
2001 is  primarily  due to higher  commodity  prices as  compared to 2000 and an
increase  in trade  receivable  collections.  Net  cash  provided  by  operating
activities  increased 69 percent  during 2000 from that of 1999,  primarily as a
result of favorable  commodity  prices and cost  management  measures.  Net cash
provided by operating  activities  during 1999 decreased 19 percent from that of
1998 primarily as a result of declines in production  volumes due to oil and gas
property  divestitures,  partially  offset by increases in commodity  prices and
decreases in production and administrative costs.

       Financing activities.  During the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and
1999,  the Company has used $64.0 million,  $244.1  million and $479.1  million,
respectively,  of net cash in financing  activities.  Over the three year period
ended  December  31, 2001,  the Company has used $620.8  million of cash for net
reductions  in  long-term  borrowings  and has reduced its ratio of debt to book
capitalization to  55 percent  as of  December 31,  2001,  from 69 percent as of

                                       35

<PAGE>



December  31,  1999.  Additionally,  the  Company  has  entered  into  financing
transactions  with the intent of reducing  its costs of capital  and  increasing
liquidity through the extension of debt maturities.

       During 2001,  the Company entered  into interest rate  swap  contracts to
hedge the fair value of its 6-1/2  percent  senior notes due in 2008,  its 8-7/8
percent senior notes due in 2005 and its 8-1/4 percent senior notes due in 2007.
The Company  also  entered  into  interest  rate swaps to hedge a portion of its
interest rate risk under the Credit Agreement.  These swap contracts reduced the
Company's  interest  expense by $7.3 million during 2001. See Note H of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplemental Data" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market Risk" for more information about the Company's hedging activities.

       As is further described in  "Results of Operations"  above,  during 2001,
the Company  redeemed its  remaining 11-5/8  percent and 10-5/8  percent  senior
subordinated  notes due July 1, 2006,  and $38.7  million  of its 9-5/8  percent
senior notes due April 1, 2010.

       At December 31,  2001,  the Company had a  $575 million  corporate credit
facility  with a syndicate of banks that  matures on March 1, 2005.  Outstanding
borrowings  under the  corporate  credit  facility  totaled  $294  million as of
December 31, 2001.  In addition,  the Company has five  outstanding  senior note
issuances at December 31, 2001. Such debt issuances  consist of (i) $150 million
aggregate  principal amount of 8-7/8 percent senior notes due in 2005; (ii) $150
million  aggregate  principal  amount of 8-1/4 percent senior notes due in 2007;
(iii) $350 million aggregate  principal amount of 6-1/2 percent senior notes due
in 2008; (iv) $385 million aggregate remaining principal amount of 9-5/8 percent
senior notes due in 2010; and, (iv) (v) $250 million aggregate  principal amount
of 7-1/5  percent  senior notes due in 2028.  Certain of the  obligations  above
contain  restrictive  covenants  which the Company is in  compliance  with as of
December 31, 2000.

       The weighted average interest rate on the Company's  indebtedness for the
year ended  December  31, 2001 was 7.52  percent as compared to 8.68 percent for
the year ended  December 31, 2000 and 7.81  percent for the year ended  December
31, 1999,  taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.  See Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" for more specific  information  regarding the
Company's long-term debt as of December 31, 2001 and 2000.

       As the Company  pursues its strategy,  it may utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Company's Board of Directors.

       Sales of non-strategic assets.  During 2001, 2000 and 1999, proceeds from
the sale of  non-strategic  assets  totaled $113.5  million,  $102.7 million and
$420.5 million (1999 includes $30 million of non-cash  proceeds),  respectively.
The Company's  2001,  2000 and 1999 asset  divestitures  were comprised of hedge
derivatives,  common stock of a  non-affiliated entity, and non-strategic United
States and Canadian oil and gas  properties,  gas plants and other  assets.  The
cash proceeds received from asset  divestitures  during 2001 were used to fund a
portion of the Company's  2001 capital  expenditures  and for general  corporate
obligations.  The net cash  proceeds  from the 2000 and 1999 asset  divestitures
were used to reduce the  Company's  outstanding  indebtedness  (see  "Results of
Operations",  above,  and Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Book capitalization and liquidity.  Total debt  remained constant at $1.6
billion as of December 31,  2001,  as compared to total debt of $1.6 billion and
$1.7 billion on December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  The Company's  total
book  capitalization at December 31, 2001 was $2.9 billion,  consisting of total
debt of $1.6 billion and stockholders' equity of $1.3 billion. Consequently, the
Company's debt to total  capitalization  decreased to 55 percent at December 31,
2001 from 64 percent at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001, the Company had
$14.3 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, compared to $26.2 million at
December 31, 2000. The Company's ratio of current assets to current  liabilities
was 1.12 at December  31, 2001 and .88 at December  31,  2000.  Including  $27.9
million of undrawn  and  outstanding  letters of credit,  the Company has $253.1
million of unused borrowing  capacity available under its Credit Agreement as of
December 31, 2001.

                                       36

<PAGE>




ITEM 7A.       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

       The following quantitative and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2001
and 2000,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates,  commodity prices or
common stock prices. Although certain derivative contracts that the Company is a
party to do not qualify as hedges, the Company does not enter into derivative or
other financial instruments for trading purposes.

       The fair value of the Company's derivative contracts are determined based
on  counterparties'  estimates and valuation models. The Company has not changed
its  valuation  method during 2001.  During 2001,  the Company only entered into
costless  swap  and  collar  contracts.  See  Note H of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional  information  regarding the Company's derivative contracts,
including  deferred  gains and losses on terminated  derivative  contracts.  The
following  table  reconciles the changes that occurred in the fair values of the
Company's open derivative contracts during 2001:
<TABLE>
                                                      Derivative Contract Assets (Liabilities)
                                                    -------------------------------------------
                                                                           Foreign
                                                                Interest   Exchange
                                                    Commodity     Rate       Rate       Total
                                                    ---------   --------   --------   ---------
                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>
       Fair value of contracts outstanding
           as of December 31, 2000..............    $(165,560)  $  6,216    $  -      $(159,344)
       Changes in contract fair value...........      396,921       (159)       61      396,823
       Contract realizations:
           Maturities...........................       (3,601)    (4,524)      -         (8,125)
           Termination - cash settlements.......      (64,240)   (21,170)      -        (85,410)
           Termination - future obligations.....       22,311        -         -         22,311
           Termination  - future receivables....       (5,277)       -         -         (5,277)
                                                     --------    -------      ----     --------

       Fair value of contracts outstanding
           as of December 31, 2001..............    $ 180,554   $(19,637)   $   61    $ 160,978
                                                     ========    =======     =====     ========
</TABLE>

Quantitative Disclosures

       Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide information,  in
U. S. dollar  equivalent  amounts,  about derivative  financial  instruments and
other financial  instruments to which the Company was a party as of December 31,
2001 and 2000,  which are  sensitive  to changes  in  interest  rates.  For debt
obligations,  the tables present  maturities by expected maturity dates together
with the weighted  average interest rates expected to be paid on the debt, given
current  contractual  terms and market  conditions.  For fixed  rate  debt,  the
weighted average  interest rate represents the contractual  fixed rates that the
Company is obligated to periodically pay on the debt as of December 31, 2001 and
2000. For variable rate debt, the average  interest rate  represents the average
rates  being paid on the debt  projected  forward  proportionate  to the forward
yield curve for the six-month London  Interbank  Offered Rate as of February 28,
2002 for the  Interest  Rate  Sensitive  table as of  December  31, 2001 and the
forward yield curve for United States treasury  securities for the Interest Rate
Sensitivity table as of December 31, 2000.

       The accompanying tables also provide information about interest rate swap
agreements  entered into by the Company  during 2001 and 2000. The interest rate
swap  agreements  as of  December  31,  2001  hedge  (i) the  fair  value of the
Company's 8-1/4 percent senior notes due August 15, 2007; (ii) the fair value of
the  Company's  6-1/2  percent  senior notes due January 15,  2008;  and (iii) a
portion  of  the  interest  rate  risk  associated  with  the  Company's  Credit
Agreement.  The Interest Rate Sensitivity table as of December 31, 2000 includes
information  about  interest rate swap  agreements  that the Company  terminated
during 2001 but which,  as of December  31,  2000,  hedged the fair value of the
Company's 8-7/8 percent senior notes due April 15, 2005.


                                       37

<PAGE>



                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001
<TABLE>
                                                                                                                          Asset
                                                                                                                       (Liability)
                                    2002        2003        2004        2005        2006     Thereafter      Total      Fair Value
                                 ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                               (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                              <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt..........   $    -      $    -      $    -      $161,998    $    -      $1,121,306   $1,283,304   $(1,268,178)
     Weighted average
       interest rate..........       8.06%       8.06%       8.06%       7.98%       7.95%         7.95%
     Variable rate debt.......   $    -      $    -      $    -      $294,000    $    -      $      -     $  294,000   $ (294,000)
     Average interest rates...       4.38%       6.12%       6.90%       7.27%

Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives (1):
  8-1/4% senior notes hedge:
     Notional debt amount.....   $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $  150,000   $  150,000   $   (2,965)
     Fixed rate receivable....       8.25%       8.25%       8.25%       8.25%       8.25%         8.25%
     Variable rate payable....       6.50%       8.24%       9.02%       9.39%       9.64%         9.79%
  6-1/2% senior notes hedge:
     Notional debt amount.....   $350,000    $350,000    $350,000    $350,000    $350,000    $  350,000   $  350,000   $  (16,229)
     Fixed rate receivable....       6.50%       6.50%       6.50%       6.50%       6.50%         6.50%
     Variable rate payable....       5.15%       6.89%       7.67%       8.04%       8.29%         8.44%
  Credit Agreement hedge:
     Notional debt amount.....   $ 55,000                                                                 $   55,000   $     (443)
     Fixed rate payable.......       5.43%
     Variable rate receivable.       4.38%
- ---------------
<FN>
(1)  The Company's 8-1/4% senior notes hedge matures August 15, 2007; the 6-1/2%
     senior notes hedge matures January 15, 2008; and the Credit Agreement hedge
     matures May 20, 2002.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000
<TABLE>
                                                                                                                         Asset
                                                                                                                      (Liability)
                                    2001        2002        2003        2004        2005     Thereafter      Total     Fair Value
                                 ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ----------   ----------  -----------
                                                               (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                              <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt..........  $    -      $   -       $    -      $    -      $150,000    $1,203,776   $1,353,776  $(1,290,250)(1)
     Weighted average
       interest rate..........      8.10%       8.10%       8.10%       8.10%       8.03%         8.00%
     Variable rate debt.......  $    -      $    -      $    -      $    -      $225,000    $      -     $  225,000  $  (225,000)
     Average interest rates...      6.64%       6.27%       6.18%       6.24%       6.31%

Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives (2):
  Notional amount of interest
     rate swap................  $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $150,000    $      -     $  150,000  $     6,216
  Fixed interest rate
   received...................     8.88%       8.88%       8.88%       8.88%       8.88%
  Variable interest rate paid.     7.17%       6.77%       6.67%       6.74%       6.81%
- ---------------
<FN>
(1)  Excludes  $30.9  million of debt  instruments  for which fair  values  were
     insignificant  and no estimate of fair value was  performed  as of December
     31, 2000.
(2)  The Company's interest rate hedge derivatives as of December 31, 2000 had a
     scheduled maturity of April 15, 2005.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       38

<PAGE>



       Foreign exchange rate sensitivity. The following table provides
information, in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts, about derivative financial
instruments that the Company was a party to as of December 31, 2001 and that
were sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates.

                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001
<TABLE>

                                                                               Asset
                                                        2002       Total     Fair Value
                                                      --------   ---------   ----------
                                                     (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>         <C>
Foreign Exchange Rate Hedge Derivatives:
    Notional amount of foreign
     currency forward contracts....................   $ 24,752   $  24,752      $ 61
    Fixed Canadian to U.S.
     dollar rate paid..............................      .6266
    Average forward Canadian
     dollar to U.S. dollar
     exchange rate as of February 28, 2002.........      .6250
</TABLE>

       Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in
U.S. dollar equivalent amounts,  about derivative financial instruments that the
Company was a party to as of December  31, 2001 and 2000 and that are  sensitive
to  changes  in oil  and gas  prices.  The  tables  segregate  hedge  derivative
contracts from those that do not qualify as hedges.

       Commodity hedge instruments. The Company hedges commodity price risk with
swap and collar  contracts.  Swap contracts provide a fixed price for a notional
amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts provide minimum ("floor") and maximum
("ceiling")  prices  for the  Company  on a  notional  amount of sales  volumes,
thereby  allowing some price  participation  if the relevant  index price closes
above the floor price.

       Commodity  non-hedge  instruments.  The  Company is a  party to  Btu swap
contracts. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.  Under the terms
of the Btu swap  contracts,  the  Company  receives  10 percent of the NYMEX oil
price and pays the NYMEX gas price on a notional  13,036 MMBtu daily gas volume.
During  2000,  the  Company  entered  into Btu swap  contracts  that  offset its
variable position in the Btu swap contracts for the 2001 volumes,  but continued
to  participate  for 2002 through 2004 volumes.  Accordingly,  these  derivative
instruments  are presented in both the  accompanying  oil and gas tables for the
year ended  December 31, 2000.  During 2001,  the Company  entered into Btu swap
contracts that offset its remaining variable positions in the Btu swap contracts
for 2002 through 2004 volumes. Consequently, the Company has no remaining market
risk  associated with Btu swap contracts as of December 31, 2001. As of December
31, 2001, the carrying value of the Btu swap contracts  represented a discounted
liability of $19.4 million.

       See  Notes  B,  C  and  H of  Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
description of the  accounting  procedures  followed by the Company  relative to
hedge  and  non-hedge   derivative   financial   instruments  and  for  specific
information   regarding  the  terms  of  the  Company's   derivative   financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in oil and gas prices.


                                       39

<PAGE>



                              Oil Price Sensitivity
          Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 (3)
<TABLE>

                                                                                Asset
                                                          2002       2003     Fair Value
                                                        --------   --------   ----------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
    Swap contracts..................................       9,463      2,975    $ 23,423
     Weighted average per Bbl fixed price...........    $  26.23   $  24.02
    Collar contracts................................       2,975               $  5,506
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price................................    $  28.61
     Weighted average long put per Bbl
       floor price..................................    $  25.00
  Average forward NYMEX oil prices (2)..............    $  21.86   $  21.54
- ---------------
<FN>
(1)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2002 and 2003.

(2)  The average  forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 28, 2002 market
     quotes.

(3)  During  January 2002,  the Company  entered into 4,000 Bbls per day of July
     through  December 2002 swap  contracts with average per Bbl fixed prices of
     $21.55. These financial instruments are not included in the table.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000
<TABLE>

                                                                                                 Asset
                                                                                               (Liability)
                                                         2001      2002      2003     2004     Fair Value
                                                       -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
    Swap contracts..................................     6,510                                 $   8,819
     Weighted average per Bbl fixed price...........   $ 29.27
    Collar contracts................................     4,479                                 $  (1,820)
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price................................   $ 25.15
     Weighted average long put per Bbl
       floor price..................................   $ 20.57
Oil Non-hedge Derivatives (1):
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes under swap
    of  NYMEX gas price for 10 percent of
     NYMEX WTI price................................    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $ (25,507)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (2)...........   $  4.05   $  4.61   $  4.29   $  4.35
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (2)...........   $ 27.69   $ 24.15   $ 22.21   $ 21.54
- ---------------
<FN>

(1)  Since the oil non-hedge  derivatives  were sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables as of December 31, 2000.

(2)  The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001
     market quotes,  except for the 2001 prices that represent  locked-in prices
     associated with the Company's Btu swaps.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       40

<PAGE>



                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
          Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 (4)
<TABLE>

                                                                                                     Asset
                                                         2002       2003       2004       2005     Fair Value
                                                       --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1) (2):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
    Swap contracts..................................    165,205    117,500    165,000     50,000    $ 137,606
     Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price.........   $   4.19   $   3.62   $   3.84   $   3.63
    Collar contracts................................     20,000                                     $  14,019
     Weighted average short call per MMBtu
        ceiling price...............................   $   6.00
     Weighted average long put per MMBtu
        floor price.................................   $   4.50
  Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3)..............   $   2.68   $   3.21   $   3.42   $   3.52
- --------------
<FN>

(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(2)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005.

(3)  The average  forward NYMEX gas prices are based on February 28, 2002 market
     quotes.

(4)  During  January and February 2002, the Company  terminated  2003,  2004 and
     2005 gas swap  contracts for 117,500  MMBtu per day,  110,000 MMBtu per day
     and 20,000 MMBtu per day, respectively.  Associated therewith,  the Company
     received $51.4 million of cash proceeds  representing deferred hedge gains.
     These  deferred  hedge gains will be recorded as increments to gas revenues
     as follows:  $23.5  million  during  2003,  $26.7  million in 2004 and $1.2
     million in 2005.  During  February  2002,  the Company  entered into 50,000
     MMBtu per day of April  through  December 2002  costless  collar  contracts
     having  floor  prices of $2.40 per  MMBtu and  ceiling  prices of $3.08 per
     MMBtu and 50,000 MMBtu per day of August  through  December  2002  costless
     collars  having floor  prices of $2.50 per Mcf and ceiling  prices of $3.25
     per MMBtu. These changes in financial  instruments are not reflected in the
     table.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000
<TABLE>

                                                                                                 Asset
                                                                                               (Liability)
                                                         2001      2002      2003      2004    Fair Value
                                                       -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
    Swap contracts..................................    76,346                                 $ (79,771)
     Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price.........   $  4.59
    Collar contracts................................    54,482                                 $ (67,281)
     Weighted average short call per MMBtu
        ceiling price...............................   $  2.73
     Weighted average long put per MMBtu
        contingent floor price......................   $  2.11
Natural Gas Non-hedge Derivatives (2):
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes under
    agreement to swap NYMEX gas price
    for 10 percent of NYMEX WTI price...............    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $ (25,507)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3)...........   $  4.05   $  4.61   $  4.29   $  4.35
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (3)...........   $ 27.69   $ 24.15   $ 22.21   $ 21.54
- --------------
<FN>

(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(2)  Since the oil non-hedge  derivatives  were sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables as of December 31, 2000.

(3)  The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001
     market quotes,  except for the 2001 prices that represent  locked-in prices
     associated with the Company's Btu swaps.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       41

<PAGE>



       Other price sensitivity.  As of  December 31,  2000,  the  Company  owned
613,215  shares of a  non-affiliated  entity  having an aggregate  fair value of
$12.7  million.  During 2001, the Company sold its shares for $12.7 million (see
Notes C, E and K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information  regarding
the shares sold).

Qualitative Disclosures

       Non-derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company is a  borrower under
fixed rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate
risk. The Company's  objective in borrowing under fixed or variable rate debt is
to satisfy capital requirements while minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
To realize its  objectives,  the Company  borrows  under fixed and variable rate
debt  instruments,  based on the availability of capital,  market conditions and
hedge  opportunities.  See Note D of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
discussion relative to the Company's debt instruments.

       As described in  "Other  price  sensitivity"  above,  the  Company  owned
613,215  shares of a  non-affiliated  entity.  The  Company  does not  routinely
acquire  shares of common  stock of  publicly  traded  entities  for  investment
purposes.  The shares were received by the Company in partial  consideration for
assets sold to the non-affiliated entity.

       Derivative financial instruments.  The Company has  entered into interest
rate,  foreign exchange rate and commodity price  derivative  contracts to hedge
interest rate,  foreign  exchange rate and commodity  price risks.  Although the
Company is a party to certain derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge
accounting  treatment,  the Company's  policy is to limit its  participation  in
derivative  contracts to those that,  in the opinion of  management,  reduce the
Company's overall economic risk.

       As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company was a party to the Btu swap
contracts that are described more fully in Quantitative Disclosures,  above, and
Note H of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". These financial instruments do not
qualify as hedges of commodity  price risk under generally  accepted  accounting
standards.

       As of December 31, 2001,  the Company's primary risk exposures associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility,  volatility  in the  exchange  rates  of  the  Canadian  dollar  and
Argentine  peso  against  the U.S.  dollar and  interest  rate  volatility.  The
Company's primary risk exposures associated with financial  instruments have not
changed significantly since December 31, 2001.


                                       42

<PAGE>



ITEM 8.        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                          Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
   Independent Auditors' Report.........................................    44
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000.........    45
   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999..................................    46
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
      Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999............................    47
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999.................................    48
   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the
      Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999......................    49
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...........................    50
   Unaudited Supplementary Information..................................    82




                                       43

<PAGE>






                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

       We have audited  the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company as of December  31,  2001 and 2000,  and the related
consolidated  statements of  operations,  stockholders'  equity,  cash flows and
comprehensive  income  (loss) for each of the three  years in the  period  ended
December 31, 2001.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

       We conducted our audits in accordance  with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

       In our opinion,  the consolidated financial  statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  at  December  31,  2001 and 2000,  and the
consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended  December  31, 2001,  in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

       As discussed in Note B to the consolidated financial statements,  in 2001
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities".



                                                 Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
January 25, 2002




                                       44

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)

                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
                                                                            December 31,
                                                                     -------------------------
                                                                         2001          2000
                                                                     -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents........................................  $    14,334   $    26,159
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net of reserves for doubtful accounts of
      $5,553 and $4,766 as of December 31, 2001 and
      2000, respectively...........................................       81,616       123,497
    Affiliates.....................................................          595         2,157
  Inventories......................................................       14,549        14,842
  Deferred income taxes............................................        6,400         4,800
  Other current assets:
    Derivative assets, net of $3,153 valuation reserve
      as of December 31, 2001......................................      127,074        11,608
    Other..........................................................       11,075         8,328
                                                                      ----------    ----------
      Total current assets.........................................      255,643       191,391
                                                                      ----------    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts
   method of accounting:
    Proved properties..............................................    3,691,783     3,187,889
    Unproved properties............................................      187,785       229,205
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization.............   (1,095,310)    (902,139)
                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                       2,784,258     2,514,955
                                                                      ----------    ----------
Deferred income taxes..............................................       84,319        84,400
Other property and equipment, net..................................       21,560        25,624
Other assets, net:
  Derivative assets, net of $1,069 valuation reserve as
    of December 31, 2001...........................................       54,486        46,192
  Other............................................................       70,787        91,873
                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                     $ 3,271,053   $ 2,954,435
                                                                      ==========    ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade..........................................................  $    92,760   $    96,646
    Affiliates.....................................................        6,405         5,629
  Interest payable.................................................       37,410        38,142
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivative obligations.........................................       36,830        24,957
    Other..........................................................       54,804        51,140
                                                                      ----------    ----------
      Total current liabilities....................................      228,209       216,514
                                                                      ----------    ----------
Long-term debt.....................................................    1,577,304     1,578,776
Noncurrent derivative obligations..................................       32,438        65,974
Other noncurrent liabilities.......................................      133,945       159,766
Deferred income taxes..............................................       13,768        28,500
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares
    authorized; one share issued and outstanding...................          -             -
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares
    authorized; 107,422,467 shares issued at December 31,
    2001; and 101,268,754 shares issued at December 31, 2000.......        1,074         1,013
  Additional paid-in capital.......................................    2,462,272     2,352,608
  Treasury stock, at cost; 3,486,073 shares at December 31,
    2001 and 2,853,107 shares at December 31, 2000.................      (48,002)      (37,682)
  Accumulated deficit..............................................   (1,323,343)   (1,422,703)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income:
    Deferred hedge gains, net......................................      201,046           -
    Unrealized gain on available for sale securities...............          -           8,154
    Cumulative translation adjustment..............................       (7,658)        3,515
                                                                      ----------    ----------
      Total stockholders' equity...................................    1,285,389       904,905

Commitments and contingencies
                                                                      ----------    ----------
                                                                     $ 3,271,053   $ 2,954,435
                                                                      ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       45

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                               ---------------------------------
                                                                  2001       2000         1999
                                                               ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                            <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...............................................   $ 847,022   $ 852,738   $ 644,646
  Interest and other........................................      21,778      25,775      89,657
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net.................       7,681      34,184     (24,168)
                                                                --------    --------    --------
                                                                 876,481     912,697     710,135
                                                                --------    --------    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................................     209,664     189,265     159,530
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..................     222,632     214,938     236,047
  Impairment of oil and gas properties......................         -           -        17,894
  Exploration and abandonments..............................     127,906      87,550      65,974
  General and administrative................................      36,968      33,262      40,241
  Reorganization............................................         -           -         8,534
  Interest..................................................     131,958     161,952     170,344
  Other.....................................................      39,588      67,231      34,631
                                                                --------    --------    --------
                                                                 768,716     754,198     733,195
                                                                --------    --------    --------
Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary items...     107,765     158,499     (23,060)
Income tax benefit (provision)..............................      (4,016)      6,000         600
                                                                --------    --------    --------
Income (loss) before extraordinary items....................     103,749     164,499     (22,460)
Extraordinary items - loss on early extinguishment
  of debt, net of tax.......................................      (3,753)    (12,318)        -
                                                                --------    --------    --------
Net income (loss)...........................................   $  99,996   $ 152,181   $ (22,460)
                                                                ========    ========    ========
Income (loss) per share:
  Basic:
     Income (loss) before extraordinary items...............   $    1.05   $    1.65   $    (.22)
     Extraordinary items....................................        (.04)       (.12)        -
                                                                --------    --------    --------
     Net income (loss)......................................   $    1.01   $    1.53   $    (.22)
                                                                ========    ========    ========
  Diluted:
     Income (loss) before extraordinary items...............   $    1.04   $    1.65   $    (.22)
     Extraordinary items....................................        (.04)       (.12)        -
                                                                --------    --------    --------
     Net income (loss)......................................   $    1.00   $    1.53   $    (.22)
                                                                ========    ========    ========
Weighted average shares outstanding:
     Basic..................................................      98,529      99,378     100,307
                                                                ========    ========    ========
     Diluted................................................      99,714      99,763     100,307
                                                                ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       46

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>

                                                                                                    Accumulated Other
                                                                                                 Comprehensive Income
                                                                                   ------------------------------------------------
                                                                                   Deferred
                                             Additional                              Hedge    Investment                  Total
                                    Common    Paid-in     Treasury   Accumulated    Gains &     Gains &   Translation  Stockholders'
                                    Stock     Capital      Stock       Deficit      Losses      Losses    Adjustment      Equity
                                    ------   ----------   --------   -----------   ---------  ----------  -----------  ------------

<S>                                 <C>      <C>          <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>
Balance at January 1, 1998......... $1,008   $2,347,996   $(10,388)  $(1,552,442)  $     -    $     -      $  2,903    $  789,077

Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.........      1          249        -             -           -          -           -             250
Issuance of stock options under
  long-term incentive plan.........    -             25        -             -           -          -           -              25
Restricted shares awarded..........    -            178          4           -           -          -           -             182
Adjustment to dividends............    -            -          -              18         -          -           -              18
Realized translation adjustment....    -            -          -             -           -          -          (836)         (836)
Net loss...........................    -            -          -         (22,460)        -          -           -         (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Currency translation adjustment..    -            -          -             -           -          -         8,358         8,358
                                     -----    ---------    -------    ----------    --------   --------     -------     ---------
Balance at December 31, 1999.......  1,009    2,348,448    (10,384)   (1,574,884)        -          -        10,425       774,614
                                     -----    ---------    -------    ----------    --------   --------     -------     ---------
Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.........      4        4,160        -             -           -          -           -           4,164
Purchase of treasury stock.........    -            -      (27,298)          -           -          -           -         (27,298)
Net income.........................    -            -          -         152,181         -          -           -         152,181
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available
   for sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings gains......    -            -          -             -           -       33,828         -          33,828
    Gains included in net income...    -            -          -             -           -      (25,674)        -         (25,674)
  Currency translation adjustment..    -            -          -             -           -                   (6,910)       (6,910)
                                     -----    ---------    -------    ----------    --------   --------     -------     ---------
Balance at December 31, 2000.......  1,013    2,352,608    (37,682)   (1,422,703)        -        8,154       3,515       904,905
                                     -----    ---------    -------    ----------    --------   --------     -------     ---------
Common stock issued for
  partnership acquisitions.........     57      104,236        -             -           -          -           -         104,293
Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.........      4        5,428      2,708          (636)        -          -           -           7,504
Purchase of treasury stock.........    -            -      (13,028)          -           -          -           -         (13,028)
Net income.........................    -            -          -          99,996         -          -           -          99,996
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedge gains and losses:
    Transition adjustment..........    -            -          -             -      (197,444)       -           -        (197,444)
    Deferred hedge gains...........    -            -          -             -       393,004        -           -         393,004
    Net losses included in net
     income........................    -            -          -             -         5,486        -           -           5,486
  Unrealized gains and losses on
    available for sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings losses.....    -            -          -             -           -          (45)        -             (45)
    Gains included in net income...    -            -          -             -           -       (8,109)        -          (8,109)
  Currency translation adjustment..    -            -          -             -           -          -       (11,173)      (11,173)
                                     -----    ---------    -------    ----------    --------   --------     -------     ---------
Balance at December 31, 2001....... $1,074   $2,462,272   $(48,002)  $(1,323,343)  $ 201,046  $     -      $ (7,658)   $1,285,389
                                     =====    =========    =======    ==========    ========   ========     =======     =========
</TABLE>


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements.


                                       47

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>

                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                                -----------------------------------
                                                                   2001         2000        1999
                                                                ---------   -----------   ---------

<S>                                                             <C>         <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss)...........................................  $  99,996   $   152,181   $ (22,460)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization...............    222,632       214,938     236,047
       Impairment of oil and gas properties...................        -             -        17,894
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes..............    103,595        66,959      50,030
       Deferred income taxes..................................     (7,649)      (10,600)        -
       (Gain) loss on disposition of assets, net..............     (7,681)      (34,184)     24,168
       Loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.......      3,753        12,318         -
       Other noncash items....................................     29,832        72,475        (866)
     Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of
         effects from acquisitions:
       Accounts receivable....................................     41,295        (7,486)     (7,393)
       Inventory..............................................     (4,256)       (2,789)       (952)
       Other current assets...................................     (6,304)       (9,896)     (2,335)
       Accounts payable.......................................       (541)       26,260     (18,683)
       Interest payable.......................................       (733)        2,097       2,851
       Other current liabilities..............................      1,661       (52,177)    (23,067)
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
       Net cash provided by operating activities..............    475,600       430,096     255,234
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisition, net of fees paid..............     11,119           -           -
  Proceeds from disposition of assets.........................    113,453       102,736     390,531
  Additions to oil and gas properties.........................   (529,723)     (299,682)   (179,669)
  Other property dispositions (additions), net................    (17,590)        2,445     (11,867)
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
       Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities....   (422,741)     (194,501)    198,995
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt.............................    328,331       922,607     355,493
  Principal payments on long-term debt........................   (333,410)   (1,099,935)   (793,919)
  Payments of other noncurrent liabilities....................    (53,437)      (29,759)    (34,002)
  Purchase of treasury stock..................................    (13,028)      (27,298)        -
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs...........................        -         (13,847)     (6,891)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases......      7,504         4,164         250
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
       Net cash used in financing activities..................    (64,040)     (244,068)   (479,069)
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents ....................    (11,181)       (8,473)    (24,840)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents..       (644)         (156)        407
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year..................     26,159        34,788      59,221
                                                                 --------    ----------    --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year........................  $  14,334   $    26,159   $  34,788
                                                                 ========    ==========    ========
</TABLE>


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements.

                                       48

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (in thousands)




<TABLE>


                                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------------
                                                              2001        2000         1999
                                                           ---------   ---------   ---------

<S>                                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
Net income (loss).......................................   $  99,996   $ 152,181   $ (22,460)

Other comprehensive income:
  Deferred hedge gains and losses:
     Transition adjustment..............................    (197,444)        -           -
     Deferred hedge gains...............................     393,004         -           -
     Net losses included in net income..................       5,486         -           -
  Gains and losses on available for sale securities:
     Unrealized holding gains and losses................         (45)     33,828         -
     Gains included in net income.......................      (8,109)    (25,674)        -
  Translation adjustment:
     Currency translation adjustment....................     (11,173)     (6,910)      8,358
     Realized translation adjustment....................         -           -          (836)
                                                            --------    --------    --------

       Other comprehensive income.......................     181,719       1,244       7,522
                                                            --------    --------    --------

Comprehensive income (loss).............................   $ 281,715   $ 153,425   $ (14,938)
                                                            ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements.


                                       49

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999



NOTE A.        Organization and Nature of Operations

       Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company   (the  "Company")   is  a  Delaware
corporation  whose  common  stock is listed  and  traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange  and  the  Toronto  Stock  Exchange.  The  Company  is an oil  and  gas
exploration  and  production  company  with  ownership  interests in oil and gas
properties  located  principally in the Mid Continent,  Southwestern and onshore
and offshore Gulf Coast  regions of the United States and in Argentina,  Canada,
South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.

NOTE B.        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       Principles  of  consolidation.   The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the  accounts of the Company  and its  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  since
their acquisition or formation, and the Company's interest in the affiliated oil
and gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of
its wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  The Company  proportionately  consolidates less
than 100  percent-owned  oil and gas  partnerships  in accordance  with industry
practice.  The Company  owns less than a 20 percent  interest in the oil and gas
partnerships that it  proportionately  consolidates.  All material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  have a readily
determinable  fair value are classified as "trading  securities" if management's
current intent is to hold them for only a short period of time; otherwise,  they
are accounted for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The Company reevaluates
the  classification of investments in  non-affiliated  equity securities at each
balance   sheet   date.   The   carrying   value  of  trading   securities   and
available-for-sale  securities  are  adjusted  to fair value as of each  balance
sheet date.

       Unrealized  holding  gains  are  recognized  for  trading  securities  in
interest and other  revenue,  and  unrealized  holding  losses are recognized in
other  expense  during the  periods in which  changes in fair value  occur.  The
Company did not have any  investments  in trading  securities as of December 31,
2001 or 2000.

       Unrealized holding gains and losses are recognized for available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income (loss) during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.  Realized
gains  and  losses  on the  divestiture  of  available-for-sale  securities  are
determined  using  the  average  cost  method.  The  Company  did not  have  any
investments in available-for-sale  securities as of December 31, 2001. See Notes
C and K below for the fair  value and a  description  of the  available-for-sale
securities held as of December 31, 2000.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  do  not have a
readily determinable fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost
or the net  realizable  value of the  investment.  The  Company did not have any
equity security  investments that did not have a readily determinable fair value
as of December 31, 2001 or 2000.

       Use of estimates in the  preparation of financial statements. Preparation
of  the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting  periods.  Depletion of oil and gas  properties  is  determined  using
estimates  of proved  oil and gas  reserves.  There are  numerous  uncertainties
inherent  in  the  estimation  of  quantities  of  proved  reserves  and  in the
projection  of  future  rates  of  production  and  the  timing  of  development
expenditures.  Similarly,  evaluations for impairment of proved and unproved oil
and gas  properties  are  subject to  numerous  uncertainties  including,  among
others,  estimates of future  recoverable  reserves;  commodity  price outlooks;
foreign laws,  restrictions  and currency  exchange rates; and export and excise
taxes.

                                       50

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999



       Early in  January 2002,  the  Argentine  government  severed  the  direct
one-to-one U.S. dollar to Argentine peso  relationship that has existed for many
years.   The  following   bullet  points  disclose  the  significant   Argentine
assumptions utilized in the preparation of the 2001 financial statements:

o    As of December 31, 2001,  the Company used an exchange rate of 1.7 pesos to
     $1 to remeasure the peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of the
     Company's Argentine subsidiaries.

o    As part of the remeasurement  process, the Company generally estimated that
     the  recovery  or  settlement  values to be  realized  on  peso-denominated
     receivables and payables would be approximately 1.2 pesos to $1.

o    After  remeasuring  inventory at  historical  exchange  rates,  the Company
     reduced the carrying  value of its  Argentine  lease and well  equipment to
     market  values.  The market value of the  inventory  was estimated to be 15
     percent higher than the historical peso balance,  but on an equivalent U.S.
     dollar basis, lower than the Company's carrying cost.

o    The Company  reviewed  its  Argentine  proved and unproved  properties  for
     impairment as of December 31, 2001. The Company's assessments were based on
     the Company's  expectations of future  commodity  prices to be received and
     expenses to be paid in  Argentina.  The  assumptions  utilized to determine
     future net cash  flows had oil and  natural  gas  liquids  ("NGLs")  prices
     returning  to world market  prices  after a short-term  period to allow for
     price  inflation.  Similarly,  gas  prices  also were  assumed to return to
     predevaluation  U.S.  dollar levels after a short-term  period to allow for
     inflation. Expenses were assumed to devalue with the peso, but to gradually
     increase  to  80  percent  of  predevaluation  amounts.  Based  upon  these
     assumptions,  the Company  determined that the carrying value of its proved
     and unproved properties was fully recoverable.

       The remeasurement  of the  peso-denominated  monetary net  assets and the
adjustment to reduce the carrying  amount of lease and well equipment  inventory
to market values  resulted in the Company  recognizing a $7.7 million  charge in
2001.  Numerous  uncertainties  exist  surrounding  the ultimate  resolution  of
Argentina's  economic and political  instability and actual results could differ
from those estimates and assumptions utilized.

       The Argentine  economic and  political situation  continues to evolve and
the Argentine  government may enact future  regulations  or policies that,  when
finalized  and  adopted,  may  materially  impact,  among other  items,  (i) the
realized  prices the Company  receives for the commodities it produces and sells
as a result of new export taxes or higher  production  taxes; (ii) the timing of
repatriations of excess cash flow to the Company's corporate headquarters in the
United States; (iii) the Company's asset valuations;  and (iv)  peso-denominated
monetary assets and liabilities.

       Cash  equivalents.  Cash and cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

       Inventories - equipment.  Lease  and well  equipment to be used in future
production  and drilling  activities are carried at the lower of cost or market,
on a first-in, first-out basis.

       Inventories - commodities.  Commodities  are  carried  at  the  lower  of
average cost or market.  When sold from  inventory,  commodities  are charged to
expense on a first-in, first-out basis.

       Oil and gas properties.  The  Company  utilizes  the  successful  efforts
method of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this method,  all
costs associated with productive wells and  nonproductive  development wells are
capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical
expenditures  are expensed.  The Company also expenses the costs associated with
exploratory wells that find oil and gas reserves if a determination  that proved
reserves have been found cannot be made within one year of the exploration  well


                                       51

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


being drilled.  The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for significant
development projects until such projects are ready for their intended use.

       The Company owns interests in nine natural gas processing plants and four
treating  facilities.  The  Company  operates  six of the  plants  and all  four
treating  facilities.  The  Company's  ownership  in the natural gas  processing
plants  and  treating  facilities  is  primarily  to  accommodate  handling  the
Company's gas  production and thus are considered a component of the capital and
operating costs of the respective  fields that they service.  To the extent that
there is excess capacity at a plant or treating  facility,  the Company attempts
to  process  third  party gas  volumes  for a fee to keep the plant or  treating
facility at capacity.  All  revenues  and expenses  derived from third party gas
volumes  processed  through the plants and treating  facilities  are reported as
components of oil and gas production  costs. The third party revenues  generated
from the plant and treating  facilities  for the three years ended  December 31,
2001,  2000 and 1999 were  $28.2  million,  $36.3  million  and  $32.7  million,
respectively.  The third party expenses  attributable to the plants and treating
facilities  for those same  periods  were $9.2  million,  $9.0  million and $9.7
million,  respectively.  The  capitalized  costs  of  the  plants  and  treating
facilities  are included in proved oil and gas properties and are depleted using
the  unit-of-production  method  along with the other  capitalized  costs of the
field that they service.

       Capitalized  costs relating to  proved properties are  depleted using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves  as  determined  by  the
Company's engineers. Costs of significant nonproducing properties,  wells in the
process of being drilled and  development  projects are excluded from  depletion
until such time as the related  project is  developed  and proved  reserves  are
established or impairment is determined.

       Capitalized costs of individual  properties sold or abandoned are charged
to accumulated  depletion,  depreciation and amortization with the proceeds from
the sales of individual  properties  credited to property costs. No gain or loss
is recognized until the entire amortization base is sold. However,  gain or loss
is  recognized  from the sale of less  than an entire  amortization  base if the
disposition is significant enough to materially impact the depletion rate of the
remaining properties in the amortization base.

       If significant,  the Company  accrues the  estimated future costs to plug
and abandon wells under the  unit-of-production  method.  The charge, if any, is
reflected  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated   Statements  of  Operations  as
abandonment  expense  while  the  liability  is  reflected  in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets as other  liabilities.  Plugging  and  abandonment
liabilities  assumed in a business  combination  accounted for as a purchase are
recorded  at fair  value.  At  December  31,  2001 and  2000,  the  Company  has
recognized  plugging  and  abandonment  liabilities  of $39.5  million and $42.0
million, respectively.

       The Company reviews its long-lived assets to be held and used,  including
proved oil and gas properties  accounted for under the successful efforts method
of accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An impairment loss is indicated if the
sum of the expected  future cash flows is less than the  carrying  amount of the
assets. In this circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the
amount by which the  carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the  estimated  fair
value of the asset.

       Unproved  oil and gas  properties  that are  individually significant are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a  project-by-project  basis.  The  estimated  value is affected by the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or  expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of
potential  reserves  determined by such  evaluations  is not sufficient to fully
recover  the cost  invested  in each  project,  the Company  will  recognize  an
impairment loss at that time by recording an allowance.  The remaining  unproved
oil and gas properties are  aggregated  and an overall  impairment  allowance is
provided based on the Company's historical experience.


                                       52

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       Treasury stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases are  recorded  at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

       Environmental.  The Company's  environmental expenditures are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or  mitigate  or  prevent  future   environmental   contamination  are
capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability are fixed or reliably determinable.

       Revenue  recognition.  The   Company  uses  the  entitlements  method  of
accounting  for oil,  NGL and gas  revenues.  Sales  proceeds  in  excess of the
Company's  entitlement are included in other liabilities and the Company's share
of sales  taken by  others  is  included  in other  assets  in the  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table presents the entitlement assets
and entitlement liabilities and their associated volumes as of December 31, 2001
and 2000 (in millions):
<TABLE>
                                                                   December 31,
                                                       ---------------------------------
                                                             2001              2000
                                                       ---------------   ---------------
                                                       Amount    MMcf    Amount    MMcf
                                                       ------   ------   ------   ------

<S>                                                    <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
     Entitlement assets............................    $ 30.9   25,335   $ 33.7   26,780
     Entitlement liabilities.......................    $ 20.3   15,197   $ 19.0   13,830
</TABLE>

       Stock-based compensation.  The Company  accounts for employee stock-based
compensation   using  the  intrinsic  value  method   prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB 25"). Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for stock options
granted to employees or directors when the exercise price of options  granted is
equal to or above the quoted market price of the  Company's  common stock on the
date of grant. The Company has disclosed the pro forma net income (loss) and net
income (loss) per share amounts as required by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No.123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123") in Note
F below.

       Derivatives and hedging. Prior to January 1, 2001, the following criteria
were  required to be met in order for the  Company to account  for a  derivative
instrument  as a hedge of an existing  asset or  liability,  or of a  forecasted
transaction:  an asset,  liability or forecasted  transaction  must have existed
that exposed the Company to price,  interest rate or foreign  exchange rate risk
that was not offset in another asset or  liability;  the  derivative  instrument
must have reduced that price,  interest rate or foreign exchange rate risk; and,
the derivative  instrument must have been designated as a hedge at the inception
of the instrument and  throughout  the hedge period.  Additionally,  in order to
qualify as a hedge,  there must have been clear  correlation  between changes in
the fair value or expected cash flows of the derivative  instrument and the fair
value or expected  cash flows of the hedged asset or  liability,  or  forecasted
transaction, such that changes in the derivative instrument offset the effect of
price, interest rate or foreign exchange rate changes on the exposed items.

       Prior to  January 1,  2001,  gains or  losses  realized  from  derivative
instruments  that  qualified  as hedges were  deferred as assets or  liabilities
until the underlying hedged asset, liability or transaction  monetized,  matured
or was otherwise recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. When
recognized  in net income  (loss),  hedge  gains and losses  are  classified  as
components of the commodity prices,  interest or foreign exchange rates that the
derivative  instrument  hedged.  Derivative  instruments that are not hedges are
recorded at fair value, as assets or liabilities.  Changes in the fair values of
non-hedge derivative instruments are recognized as other income or other expense
during  the  periods  in  which  their  fair  values  change.  See  Note H for a
description  of the  specific  types of  derivative  transactions  in which  the
Company participates.


                                       53

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       In June 1998,  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging  Activities" ("SFAS 133") as amended,  the provisions of
which the Company adopted effective January 1, 2001.

       SFAS  133  requires   the  accounting   recognition  of  all   derivative
instruments  as  either  assets  or   liabilities  at  fair  value.   Derivative
instruments  that are not hedges  must be  adjusted  to fair value  through  net
income (loss).  Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of
derivative  instruments that are fair value hedges are offset against changes in
the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities,  or firm commitments,  through
net income (loss). Effective changes in the fair value of derivative instruments
that are cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in
stockholders'  equity until such time as the hedged items are  recognized in net
income (loss).  Ineffective portions of a derivative instrument's change in fair
value are immediately recognized in net income (loss).

       The  adoption of  SFAS  133  resulted  in a  January 1,  2001  transition
adjustment  to (i)  reclassify  $57.8  million of deferred  losses on terminated
hedge  positions  from other assets  (including  $11.6  million of other current
assets),  (ii)  increase  other current  assets,  other assets and other current
liabilities by $7.0 million, $6.2 million and $146.6 million,  respectively,  to
record the fair value of open hedge  derivatives,  (iii)  increase  the carrying
value of hedged  long-term  debt by $6.2  million and (iv) reduce  stockholders'
equity by $197.4  million for the net impact of items (i) through  (iii)  above.
The  $197.4  million  reduction  in  stockholders'  equity  was  reflected  as a
transition  adjustment  in other  comprehensive  income  (loss) as of January 1,
2001.

       Under the provisions of SFAS 133,  the Company may designate a derivative
instrument as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a
liability or an identified  portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk (a "fair  value  hedge") or as  hedging  the  exposure  to  variability  in
expected  future cash flows that are  attributable to a particular risk (a "cash
flow hedge").  Both at the inception of a hedge and on an ongoing  basis, a fair
value hedge must be  expected to be highly  effective  in  achieving  offsetting
changes in fair value  attributable to the hedged risk during the periods that a
hedge is designated.  Similarly, a cash flow hedge must be expected to be highly
effective in achieving  offsetting  cash flows  attributable  to the hedged risk
during the term of the hedge.  The  Company's  policy is to assess  actual hedge
effectiveness at the end of each calendar quarter.

       Foreign currency translation.  The U.S. dollar is the functional currency
for all of the Company's  international  operations except Canada.  Accordingly,
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are remeasured
to U.S.  dollars  at the  exchange  rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses  denominated in a foreign  currency are
remeasured  at the average of the exchange  rates that were in effect during the
period  in which  the  revenues  and costs and  expenses  were  recognized.  The
resulting gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency denominated balances
into U.S.  dollars are recorded in other income or other expense,  respectively.
Non-monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in a foreign  currency  are
remeasured at the historic  exchange rates that were in effect when the asset or
liabilities were acquired or incurred.

       The functional  currency  of the  Company's  Canadian  operations  is the
Canadian dollar. The financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiary
entities are translated to U. S. dollars as follows:  all assets and liabilities
are  translated  using the exchange rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses are translated using the average of the
exchange  rates that were in effect  during the period in which the revenues and
costs  and  expenses  were  recognized.  The  resulting  gains  or  losses  from
translating   non-U.S.   dollar   denominated   balances  are  recorded  in  the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the period
through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).


                                       54

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       The exchange rates used in the preparation of these consolidated
financial statements appear below:
<TABLE>
                                                                                December 31,
                                                                         ------------------------
                                                                          2001     2000     1999
                                                                         ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                                      <C>      <C>      <C>
     Translation:
     U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets.................   .6277    .6671    .6915
     U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of Operations.......   .6356    .6650    .6700
</TABLE>

       Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications  have been made to the 2000
and 1999 amounts to conform to the 2001 presentation.

NOTE C.        Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following  table  presents the  carrying  amounts and  estimated fair
values of the Company's  financial  instruments as of December 31, 2001 and 2000
(in thousands):
<TABLE>
                                                             2001                    2000
                                                    ---------------------    ---------------------
                                                     Carrying     Fair       Carrying      Fair
                                                       Value      Value        Value       Value
                                                    ---------   ---------    ---------   ---------
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
Financial assets:
  Investment in non-affiliated entity...........    $     -     $     -      $  12,724   $  12,724
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
  Practicable to estimate fair value:
     Line of credit.............................    $ 294,000   $ 294,000    $ 225,000   $ 225,000
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005...............    $ 161,998   $ 159,000    $ 149,546   $ 153,000
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007...............    $ 153,672   $ 154,215    $ 150,661   $ 148,125
     6-1/2% senior notes due 2008...............    $ 332,613   $ 329,280    $ 348,691   $ 315,000
     9-5/8% senior notes due 2010...............    $ 385,110   $ 421,508    $ 423,577   $ 480,375
     7-1/5% senior notes due 2028...............    $ 249,911   $ 204,175    $ 249,910   $ 193,750
     Other......................................    $     -     $     -      $  31,391   $     -
Derivative contract assets (liabilities):
     Interest rate swaps........................    $ (19,637)  $ (19,637)   $     -     $   6,216
     Foreign currency contracts.................    $      61   $      61    $     -     $     -
     Commodity price hedges.....................    $ 151,290   $ 151,290    $ (52,253)  $(192,306)
     Btu swap contracts.........................    $ (19,422)  $ (19,422)   $ (25,507)  $ (25,507)
</TABLE>

       Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts receivable,  other current  assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  entity.  As of  December 31,  2000,  the
Company owned 613,215 common shares of Prize Energy Corp. ("Prize") common stock
("Prize Common"). The Prize Common had a fair value of $12.7 million on December
31, 2000, including $8.2 million of unrealized holding gains, and is included in
other assets in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2000.  During 2001,  the Company sold its remaining  shares of Prize Common (see
Note K for additional information regarding the Prize Common divestiture).

       Long-term debt.  The carrying amount of  borrowings outstanding under the
Company's corporate credit facility (see Note D) approximates fair value because
these  instruments  bear interest at variable  market rates.  The fair values of
each of the senior note issuances were based on quoted market prices for each of
these issues.  Other  long-term debt was  insignificant  and no estimate of fair
value was performed.

       Interest rate swaps,  foreign currency swap contracts and commodity price
swap and  collar  contracts.  The fair value of  interest  rate  swaps,  foreign
currency  contracts and commodity price swap and collar  contracts are estimated
from quotes provided by the  counterparties  to these  derivative  contracts and
represent the  estimated amounts that the Company would expect to receive or pay

                                       55

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


to settle the  derivative  contracts.  See Note H for a  description  of each of
these derivatives, including whether the derivative contract qualifies for hedge
accounting treatment or is considered a speculative derivative contract.

NOTE D.        Long-term Debt

       Long-term debt, including the effects of fair value hedges and discounts,
consisted of the following components at December 31, 2001 and 2000:
<TABLE>

                                                           December 31,
                                                     ------------------------
                                                        2001          2000
                                                     ----------   -----------
                                                          (in thousands)

<S>                                                  <C>          <C>
Line of credit....................................   $  294,000   $  225,000
8-7/8% senior notes due 2005......................      161,998      149,546
8-1/4% senior notes due 2007......................      153,672      150,661
6-1/2% senior notes due 2008......................      332,613      348,691
9-5/8% senior notes due 2010......................      385,110      423,577
7-1/5% senior notes due 2028......................      249,911      249,910
Other.............................................          -         31,391
                                                      ---------    ---------
                                                     $1,577,304   $1,578,776
                                                      =========    =========
</TABLE>

       Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2001 are as follows (in
thousands):

           2002 through 2004.................................   $      -
           2005..............................................   $  455,998
           2006..............................................   $      -
           Thereafter........................................   $1,121,306

       Line of credit.  During  May 2000,  the  Company  entered  into  a $575.0
million corporate credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndication of
banks (the  "Banks")  that matures on March 1, 2005.  Advances  under the Credit
Agreement bear interest, at the option of the Company,  based on (a) a base rate
equal to the higher of the Bank of  America,  N.A.  prime rate (4.75  percent at
December  31,  2001) or a rate per annum  based on the  weighted  average of the
rates on  overnight  Federal  funds  transactions  with  members of the  Federal
Reserve System (1.52 percent at December 31, 2001), plus 50 basis points; plus a
eurodollar  margin  (the  "Eurodollar  Margin")  less 125  basis  points,  (b) a
Eurodollar  rate,  substantially  equal to the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
("LIBOR")  (1.88  percent at December  31, 2001 for 90 day  borrowings),  plus a
Eurodollar Margin, or (c) a fixed rate (for aggregate advances not exceeding $50
million)  as quoted by the Banks  pursuant  to a  request  by the  Company.  The
Eurodollar  Margin is based on a grid of the Company's debt ratings and ratio of
total  debt to  earnings  before  gain or loss  on the  disposition  of  assets;
interest  expense;  income  taxes;  depreciation,   depletion  and  amortization
expense;  exploration  and abandonment  expense and other noncash  expenses (the
"Total Leverage  Ratio").  As of December 31, 2001, the Eurodollar Margin is 125
basis points.

       The  Credit  Agreement  imposes  certain  restrictive  covenants  on  the
Company,  including the maintenance of a Total Leverage Ratio not to exceed 4.00
to 1.00 through  September 30, 2002 and 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter;  maintenance of
an annual ratio of the net present value of the Company's oil and gas properties
to total debt of at least 1.25 to 1.00;  a  limitation  on the  Company's  total
debt; and,  restrictions on certain payments.  The Company is in compliance with
the debt covenants as of December 31, 2001.

       As of December 31,  2001 and  2000,  the  Company  had  $27.9  million of
undrawn  letters of credit  issued under the Credit  Agreement and unused Credit
Agreement borrowing capacity of $253.1 million and $322.1 million, respectively.

                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       Senior  notes.   The  Company's   senior  notes  are   general  unsecured
obligations  ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured
indebtedness  of the Company and are senior in right of payment to all  existing
and future  subordinated  indebtedness of the Company.  The Company is a holding
company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries;  consequently,
the senior notes issuances are  structurally  subordinated to all obligations of
its  subsidiaries.  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  ("Pioneer  USA"),  a
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  has fully and  unconditionally  guaranteed the senior
note  issuances.  See Note R for a discussion of Pioneer USA debt guarantees and
Consolidating  Financial  Statements.  Interest on the Company's senior notes is
payable semiannually.

       During April 2000,  the Company  issued  $425.0 million of  9-5/8 percent
senior notes Due April 1, 2010 (the "9-5/8  percent  senior  notes").  The 9-5/8
percent  senior  notes were issued at a discount of .353 percent and resulted in
net proceeds to the Company, after underwriting discounts, commissions and costs
of issuance,  of $415.4 million. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 9-5/8
percent  senior  notes  were used to  reduce  outstanding  borrowings  under the
Company's  revolving  credit  facility.  The 9-5/8 percent  senior notes contain
various  restrictive  covenants,  including  restrictions  on the  incurrence of
additional  indebtedness  and certain  payments  defined  within the  associated
indenture.  The Company is in compliance  with the debt covenants as of December
31, 2001.

       Early extinguishment of debt.  During July 2001, the Company redeemed the
remaining  $22.5  million of  outstanding  11-5/8  percent  senior  subordinated
discount notes due July 1, 2006 and $6.8 million of  outstanding  10-5/8 percent
senior  subordinated  notes due July 1, 2006.  Additionally,  during the quarter
ended December 31, 2001, the Company redeemed $38.7 million of the 9-5/8 percent
senior  notes.  Associated  with these  redemptions,  the Company  recognized an
extraordinary loss, net of taxes, of $3.8 million during the year ended December
31, 2001. In May 2000,  the Company  recognized an  extraordinary  loss of $12.3
million, net of tax, from the early extinguishment of its prior revolving credit
facility.

       Interest expense.  The  following  amounts have been  charged to interest
expense for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                                    2001       2000       1999
                                                                  --------   --------   --------
                                                                          (in thousands)

<S>                                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
     Cash payments for interest.................................  $129,992   $147,156   $150,929
     Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans...     7,937      7,995      8,401
     Interest capitalized.......................................    (5,991)       -          -
     Amortization of deferred hedge gains (see Note H)..........    (2,750)       -          -
     Amortization of capitalized loan fees......................     2,252      2,769      2,686
     Kansas ad valorem tax accrual (see Note G).................     1,250      1,935      1,433
     Net change in accruals.....................................      (732)     2,097      6,895
                                                                   -------    -------    -------
                                                                  $131,958   $161,952   $170,344
                                                                   =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

NOTE E.        Related Party Transactions

       Activities  with  affiliated  partnerships.   The  Company,  through  its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries,   has  in  the  past  sponsored  certain  affiliated
partnerships,   including  44  drilling   partnerships,   three  public   income
partnerships and 13 affiliated employee  partnerships,  all of which were formed
primarily  for the  purpose  of  drilling  and  completing  wells  or  acquiring
producing  properties.  In 1992, the Company discontinued  sponsoring public and
private oil and gas development drilling  partnerships,  income partnerships and
affiliated employee partnerships.

       In December 2001,  the limited partners of 42 of the Company's affiliated
partnerships  approved an agreement and plan of merger ("Plan of Merger")  among
the Company, Pioneer USA and the partnerships.  The Plan of Merger was accounted
for as a purchase business  combination.  In consideration for the partnerships'
net assets,  the limited  partners  received  5,683,557  shares of the Company's
common  stock valued at $18.35 per share.  In connection  with this transaction,

                                       57

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


the Company  acquired net proved reserves of approximately 29 million barrels of
oil equivalent,  $13.6 million of cash held on deposit by the  partnerships  and
$.3 million of other net assets. The cash acquired from the partnerships, net of
$2.5  million  of cash  transaction  costs,  is  included  in cash  acquired  in
acquisitions,  net of fees paid in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement of
Cash Flows for the year ended  December 31, 2001.  Except for the cash acquired,
this transaction represents a noncash investing activity of the Company that was
funded by the issuance of common stock.

       In December 2000, the Company received the approval of the partners of 13
employee  partnerships  to merge with  Pioneer USA for a purchase  price of $2.0
million.  Of the total purchase price, $317 thousand was paid to current Company
employees.  Additionally,  during 2000, the Company  purchased all of the direct
oil and gas  interests  held by the  Company's  Chairman  of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer for $195 thousand.

       During each of the years 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company formed a Direct
Investment  Partnership for the purpose of permitting  selected key employees to
invest directly,  on an unpromoted  basis, in wells that the Company drills.  In
November  2000,  the Company  exercised  its right  under the Direct  Investment
Partnership  agreements to purchase each partner's  interest in their respective
Direct  Investment  Partnership.  The Company  paid $4.3 million to complete the
purchase, of which $887 thousand was paid to current Company employees.

       The Company,  through a  wholly-owned subsidiary,  serves as  operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

       The  activities  with  affiliated  partnerships  are  summarized  for the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000
and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                                     2001     2000     1999
                                                                    ------   ------   ------
                                                                         (in thousands)

<S>                                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
     Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges
        in accordance with standard industry operating
        agreements..............................................    $9,281   $9,222   $9,059
     Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses.......    $1,265   $1,550   $  744
</TABLE>

       Prize divestiture. The  Company sold certain oil and gas properties,  gas
plants  and  other  assets  to  Prize  during   1999.   Associated   with  these
transactions,  the Company received $245.0 million of proceeds. During 1999, the
board of directors of Prize was partially  comprised of Mr. Philip P. Smith, the
Chief  Executive  Officer;  Mr. Kenneth A. Hersh;  and Mr. Lon C. Kile.  Messrs.
Smith and Hersh  were  members  of the Board of  Directors  of the  Company  and
resigned  their  positions  with the Company  during the second quarter of 1999.
Similarly,  Mr. Lon C. Kile resigned his position as Executive Vice President of
the Company to accept the position of President and Chief  Operating  Officer of
Prize. The sale of the assets to Prize was initiated  through an auction process
which,  upon receipt of Prize's initial offer,  was placed under the supervision
of a special independent  committee (comprised of outside directors unrelated to
Prize) of the Company's Board of Directors.  The independent  committee reviewed
and  considered  all offers  presented  to the Company  for the  purchase of the
assets  acquired  by  Prize.  The  Prize  offer  was  approved  by  the  special
independent  committee  as  being  the  best  offer  presented  (see  Note K for
additional  information  regarding  the  Company's  investment  in Prize and the
divestiture of assets to Prize).

       Consulting fee.  Effective  January 1, 1999,  the Company entered into an
amended and restated  agreement with Rainwater,  Inc.,  whereby the Company pays
Rainwater,  Inc.  $300,000 per year and reimburses  Rainwater,  Inc. for certain
expenses in consideration for certain consulting and financial analysis services
provided to the Company by Rainwater, Inc. and its representatives.  The term of
this  agreement  expires on  December  31,  2003.  During  2001,  2000 and 1999,
consulting  and  financial  analysis  services  provided to the Company  totaled


                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


$300,000,  $300,000  and  $325,000,  respectively,  plus  expenses.  Richard  E.
Rainwater,  who resigned from the Company's  Board of Directors  during 2000, is
the sole shareholder of Rainwater, Inc.

NOTE F.        Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

       Deferred compensation retirement plan.  In August 1997,  the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement
plan for the officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and
key employee is allowed to contribute up to 25 percent of their base salary. The
Company  will  then  provide  a  matching  contribution  of 100  percent  of the
officer's and key employee's contribution limited to the first 10 percent of the
officer's base salary and eight percent of the key employee's  base salary.  The
Company's  matching  contribution  vests  immediately.  A trust  fund  has  been
established  by the  Company to  accumulate  the  contributions  made under this
retirement plan. The Company's matching  contributions were $652 thousand,  $611
thousand and $508 thousand for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

       401(k) plan.  The  Pioneer Natural Resources USA,  Inc.  401(k) Plan (the
"401(k) Plan") is a defined  contribution  plan  established  under the Internal
Revenue  Code  Section 401. All regular  full-time  and  part-time  employees of
Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k) Plan on the first day of
the month following their date of hire. Participants may contribute an amount of
not less than two percent nor more than 12 percent of their  annual  salary into
the 401(k) Plan. Each  participant's  account is credited with the participant's
contributions and an allocation of the 401(k) Plan's earnings.  Participants are
fully vested in their account balances.

       Matching plan. The Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. Matching Plan (the
"Matching Plan") is a money purchase pension plan which accumulates  benefits to
participants.  All regular  full-time  and  part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA
become  eligible to  participate  in the  Matching  Plan  concurrent  with their
eligibility to  participate in the 401(k) Plan. All Matching Plan  contributions
are  made  in  cash  by  Pioneer  USA  in  amounts  equal  to 200  percent  of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each participant's  account is credited with their Matching  Contribution and an
allocation of Matching Plan earnings. Participants proportionately vest in their
account  balances  over a four year  period,  at the end of which they are fully
vested in their account balances. During the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000
and 1999,  the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $3.4 million,  $3.4
million and $3.1 million, respectively, as a result of Matching Contributions.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

       In August 1997, the Company's stockholders approved a long-term incentive
plan (the  "Long-Term  Incentive  Plan"),  which  provides  for the  granting of
incentive  awards  in the  form of stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights,
performance  units and restricted stock to directors,  officers and employees of
the Company. The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum
number of shares of common  stock  equal to 10  percent  of the total  number of
shares of common stock  equivalents  outstanding plus the total number of shares
of common stock subject to outstanding awards under any stock-based plan for the
directors, officers or employees of the Company.


                                       59

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       The following table  calculates the number of shares or options available
for grant under the Company's Long- Term Incentive  Plan as of December 31, 2001
and 2000:
<TABLE>
                                                                              December 31,
                                                                        -------------------------
                                                                           2001          2000
                                                                        -----------   -----------

<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>
  Shares outstanding..................................................  103,936,394    98,415,647
  Outstanding exercisable options or exercisable within 60 days.......    4,658,155     4,355,144
                                                                        -----------   -----------
                                                                        108,594,549   102,770,791
  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan...   10,859,455    10,277,079
  Less:  Outstanding awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan............   (6,377,520)   (5,514,057)
         Outstanding options under predecessor incentive plans........     (548,551)     (996,502)
                                                                        -----------   -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant...........................    3,933,384     3,766,520
                                                                        ===========   ===========
</TABLE>

       Stock option awards.  The Company has a  program of  awarding semi-annual
stock options to its officers and employees and gives its non-employee directors
a choice to receive  stock  options or cash as their annual  compensation.  This
program  provides  for stock option  awards at an exercise  price based upon the
closing sales price of the  Company's  common stock on the day prior to the date
of grant.  Employee  stock  option  awards  vest over an 18 month or three  year
schedule  and  provide a five year  exercise  period  from  each  vesting  date.
Non-employee directors' stock options vest quarterly and provide for a five year
exercise period from each vesting date. The Company granted 1,627,071, 1,439,035
and 1,945,135  options under the Long-Term  Incentive Plan during 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

       Restricted  stock  awards. There  were  no  restricted  stock  awards  to
employees or non-employee directors during the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000. During 1999, the Company awarded an aggregate of 6,200 shares of
restricted stock at an average price per share of $29.56.

       Other stock based plans.  Prior to the formation  of the Company in 1997,
the Company's  predecessor companies had long-term incentive plans in place that
allowed the  predecessor  companies  to grant  incentive  awards  similar to the
provisions of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon formation of the Company,  all
awards under these plans were assumed by the Company with the provision  that no
additional awards be granted under the predecessor plans.

       SFAS  123  disclosures.   The   Company   applies   APB  25  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the  Company's  net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share
would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
<TABLE>

                                                   For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                                  ----------------------------------
                                                     2001        2000         1999
                                                  --------     --------     --------
                                               (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                               <C>          <C>          <C>
      Net income (loss)........................   $ 93,463     $148,018     $(25,269)
      Basic net income (loss) per share........   $    .95     $   1.49     $   (.25)
      Diluted net income (loss) per share......   $    .94     $   1.48     $   (.25)
</TABLE>

       Under SFAS 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the  date of  grant  using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                  For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                                  -------------------------------
                                                    2001        2000        1999
                                                  -------     -------     -------

<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
      Risk-free interest rate..................     4.13%       5.66%       6.59%
      Expected life............................   5 years     5 years     6 years
      Expected volatility......................       49%         50%         48%
      Expected dividend yield..................      -           -           -
</TABLE>

                                       60

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999



       A summary of  the Company's  stock option plans as of  December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, and changes during the years ended on those dates,  are presented
below:
<TABLE>

                                        For the Year Ended      For the Year Ended      For the Year Ended
                                         December 31, 2001       December 31, 2000       December 31, 1999
                                       ---------------------   ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                    Weighted                Weighted                Weighted
                                         Number      Average     Number      Average     Number      Average
                                        of Shares     Price     of Shares     Price     of Shares     Price
                                       ----------   --------   ----------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding, beginning of year..      6,510,559   $  18.10    6,241,889   $  19.45    4,580,030   $  24.83
    Options granted...............      1,627,071   $  18.29    1,439,035   $  10.32    1,945,135   $   9.10
    Options forfeited.............       (566,189)  $  25.83     (798,058)  $  18.05     (256,576)  $  38.29
    Options exercised.............       (645,370)  $  11.14     (372,307)  $  10.78      (26,700)  $   5.81
                                       ----------              ----------              ----------
  Outstanding, end of year........      6,926,071   $  18.16    6,510,559   $  18.10    6,241,889   $  19.45
                                       ==========              ==========              ==========

  Exercisable at end of year......      4,005,762   $  20.82    3,897,187   $  23.47    4,038,341   $  24.62
                                       ==========              ==========              ==========
Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year.........     $     8.65              $     4.88              $     4.21
                                        =========               =========               =========
</TABLE>

       The following  table summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>

                                    Options Outstanding                            Options Exercisable
                  -----------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------
                       Number         Weighted Average      Weighted                                Weighted
   Range of        Outstanding at        Remaining           Average        Number Exercisable       Average
Exercise Prices   December 31, 2001   Contractual Life   Exercise Price   at December 31, 2001   Exercise Price
- ---------------   -----------------   ----------------   --------------   --------------------   --------------

<S>               <C>                 <C>                <C>              <C>                    <C>
   $ 5-11             1,224,082           4.9 years         $   7.93               535,792          $   8.35
   $12-18             3,693,822           5.3 years         $  15.93             1,464,241          $  14.85
   $19-26               588,951           3.0 years         $  23.46               586,513          $  23.47
   $27-30             1,327,242           2.1 years         $  29.59             1,327,242          $  29.59
   $31-82                91,974           2.3 years         $  45.00                91,974          $  45.00
                    -----------                                                -----------
                      6,926,071                                                  4,005,762
                    ===========                                                ===========
</TABLE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       The Company has an  Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") that allows
eligible  employees  to  annually  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock  at a
discounted price. Officers of the Company are not eligible to participate in the
ESPP.  Contributions  to the ESPP are limited to 15 percent of an employee's pay
(subject  to  certain  ESPP  limits)  during  the nine  month  offering  period.
Participants in the ESPP purchase the Company's  common stock at a price that is
15 percent below the closing sales price of the Company's common stock on either
the first day or the last day of each annual offering period,  whichever closing
sales price is lower.

NOTE G.        Commitments and Contingencies

       Severance agreements.  The Company has entered  into severance agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries  and bonuses for the  Company's  officers  are set by the  Compensation
Committee for the parent company  officers and by the  Management  Committee for
subsidiary  company  officers  and key  employees.  These  committees  can grant
increases or reductions to base salary at their  discretion.  The current annual
salaries for the parent company  officers,  the subsidiary  company officers and
key employees covered under such agreements total approximately $16.0 million.

                                       61

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       Indemnifications.  The Company has  indemnified its directors and certain
of its officers, employees and agents with respect to claims and damages arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

       Legal actions.  The Company is party to various  legal actions incidental
to its business, including, but not limited to, the proceedings described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on  a  quarter-by-quarter  basis and  will  adjust its
litigation  reserves  as  appropriate  to  reflect  the then  current  status of
litigation.

       Masterson.  In February 1992, the current lessors of an oil and gas lease
(the "Gas  Lease")  dated April 30,  1955,  between  R.B.  Masterson  et al., as
lessor,  and Colorado  Interstate Gas Company  ("CIG"),  as lessee,  sued CIG in
Federal  District  Court in Amarillo,  Texas,  claiming  that CIG had  underpaid
royalties due under the Gas Lease.  Under the agreements  with CIG, the Company,
as successor to MESA Inc. ("Mesa"),  has an entitlement to gas produced from the
Gas Lease. In August 1992, CIG filed a third-party complaint against the Company
for any  such  royalty  underpayment  which  may be  allocable  to the  Company.
Plaintiffs  alleged  that the  underpayment  was the  result  of CIG's use of an
improper gas sales price upon which to calculate  royalties  and that the proper
price should have been determined  pursuant to a  "favored-nations"  clause in a
July  1,  1967  amendment  to the  Gas  Lease.  The  plaintiffs  also  sought  a
declaration  by the  court as to the  proper  price  to be used for  calculating
future royalties.

       The  plaintiffs  alleged  royalty  underpayments  of  approximately  $500
million  (including  interest at 10 percent)  dating from July 1, 1967. In March
1995, the court made certain pretrial rulings that eliminated approximately $400
million of the plaintiff's  claims (which related to periods prior to October 1,
1989),  but which also reduced a number of the Company's  defenses.  The Company
and CIG filed  stipulations  with the court  whereby the Company would have been
liable for  between 50 percent  and 60  percent,  depending  on the time  period
covered, of an adverse judgment against CIG for post-February 1988 underpayments
of royalties.

       On  March 22,  1995,  a jury trial  began and on  May 4,  1995,  the jury
returned its  verdict.  Among its  findings,  the jury  determined  that CIG had
underpaid  royalties  for the period after  September 30, 1989, in the amount of
approximately    $140,000.    Although   the   plaintiffs    argued   that   the
"favored-nations"  clause  entitled  them to be paid for all of their gas at the
highest price  voluntarily paid by CIG to any other lessor,  the jury determined
that the  plaintiffs  were estopped  from  claiming  that the  "favored-nations"
clause provides for other than a pricing-scheme  to  pricing-scheme  comparison.
In  light  of  this  determination,  and  the  plaintiff's  stipulation  that  a
pricing-scheme  to  pricing-scheme  comparison  would not result in any "trigger
prices" or damages,  defendants  asked the court for a judgment that  plaintiffs
take nothing. The court, on June 7, 1995, entered final judgment that plaintiffs
recover no monetary  damages.  The plaintiffs  filed a motion for a new trial on
June 22, 1995.  The court,  on July 18, 1997,  denied  plaintiffs'  motion.  The
plaintiffs  appealed to the Fifth  Circuit  Court of Appeals and on September 8,
2000,  the Fifth Circuit Court  affirmed the take nothing  judgment of the trial
court.

       On June 7, 1996, the plaintiffs filed a separate suit against CIG and the
Company in state court in Amarillo,  Texas,  similarly claiming  underpayment of
royalties  under  the  "favored-nations"  clause,  but  based  upon  the  above-
described pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme  comparison on a well-by-well monthly
basis. The plaintiffs also claimed  underpayment of royalties since June 7, 1995
under the  "favored-nations"  clause  based upon  either the  pricing-scheme  to
pricing-scheme  method or their  previously  alleged  higher price  method.  The
Company  believed  it had  several  defenses  to this  action and  contested  it
vigorously.

       In January 2002,  the Mastersons,  CIG and  the  Company  entered  into a
Settlement  Agreement  and Lease  Amendment.  The Lease  Amendment,  among other
things,  eliminated  the  "favored-nations" clause,  defined market value at the

                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


well, and provided  specific  relinquishment  terms. The facts of the Settlement
Agreement  were jointly  presented to the court and the case was dismissed  with
prejudices February 1, 2002.

       Alford.  The Company is party to a 1993 class action lawsuit filed in the
26th Judicial District Court of Stevens County, Kansas by two classes of royalty
owners,  one for  each  of the  Company's  gathering  systems  connected  to the
Company's Satanta gas plant. The case was relatively inactive for several years.
In early 2000, the plaintiffs  amended their  pleadings to add claims  regarding
the field  compression  installed by the Company in the 1990's.  The lawsuit now
has two material claims.  First, the plaintiffs assert that the expenses related
to the field  compression are a "cost of production" for which plaintiffs cannot
be charged their  proportionate  share under the  applicable oil and gas leases.
Second,  the  plaintiffs  claim they are entitled to 100 percent of the value of
the helium extracted at the Company's  Satanta gas plant. If the plaintiffs were
to prevail on the above two claims in their  entirety,  it is possible  that the
Company's liability could reach $25 million, plus prejudgment interest. However,
the Company believes it has valid defenses to plaintiffs'  claims,  has paid the
plaintiffs  properly under their  respective oil and gas leases,  and intends to
vigorously defend itself.

       The Company believes the cost of the field  compression is not a "cost of
production",  but is rather an expense of transporting  the gas to the Company's
Satanta gas plant for processing,  where valuable hydrocarbon liquids and helium
are extracted from the gas. The plaintiffs benefit from such extractions and the
Company believes that charging the plaintiffs with their  proportionate share of
such  transportation and processing  expenses is consistent with Kansas law. The
Company has also vigorously  defended against  plaintiffs' claims to 100 percent
of the value of the helium  extracted,  and  believes  that in  accordance  with
applicable law, it has properly accounted to the plaintiffs for their fractional
royalty  share  of  the  helium  under  the  specified  royalty  clauses  of the
respective oil and gas leases.

       The  factual  evidence in the  case was  presented  to the  26th Judicial
District  Court  without a jury in December  2001.  No judgment or findings have
been entered, and the court has set the matter for oral arguments in April 2002.
Judgment could be entered anytime after April 2002. The Company  strongly denies
the  existence  of any  material  underpayment  to  plaintiffs  and  believes it
presented strong evidence at trial to support its positions. The Company has not
yet  determined  the  amount of  damages,  if any,  that would be payable if the
lawsuit was  determined  adversely  to the Company.  However,  the amount of any
resulting  liability  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
results of operations  for the period in which such  liability is recorded,  but
the Company does not expect that any such liability will have a material adverse
effect on its  consolidated  financial  position as a whole or on its liquidity,
capital resources or future results of operations.

       Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows
a "severance,  production or similar" tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the maximum  lawful price for gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission  ("FERC")  ruling  that  Kansas ad valorem  tax was such a tax,  Mesa
collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition to the otherwise  maximum lawful
price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia ("D.C. Circuit"), which held in June 1988 that the FERC
failed to provide a reasoned basis for its findings and remanded the case to the
FERC for further consideration.

       On December 1, 1993, the FERC issued an order reversing its prior ruling,
but  limiting  the effect of its  decision to Kansas ad valorem  taxes for sales
made on or after June 28, 1988.  The FERC  clarified the  effective  date of its
decision by an order dated May 18, 1994. The order  clarified that the effective
date applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28,  1988,  not sales made on or
after that date. Numerous parties filed appeals on the FERC's action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various gas producers challenged the FERC's orders on two grounds: (1)
that  the  Kansas  ad  valorem  tax,  properly  understood,   does  qualify  for
reimbursement  under the NGPA; and (2) the FERC's ruling  should,  in any event,
have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties challenged the FERC's orders on
the grounds that the FERC's  ruling  should have been applied  retroactively  to
December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment of the NGPA and  producers  should
have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       The D.C. Circuit issued its decision on August 2, 1996,  which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production since October 4, 1983, as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were denied on November 6, 1996.  Various gas producers  subsequently
filed a petition  for writ of  certiori  with the United  States  Supreme  Court
seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills rendered on or
after  June 28,  1988 (the  effective  date  originally  selected  by the FERC).
Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori  seeking to
impose refund  liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were denied on
May 12, 1997.

       The Company and  other producers filed  petitions for adjustment with the
FERC on June 24, 1997.  The Company was seeking waiver or set-off from FERC with
respect  to that  portion  of the  refund  associated  with  (i)  non-recoupable
royalties,  (ii)  non-recoupable  Kansas property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher prices  collected,  and (iii) interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file  claims on refunds  sought  from  producers  and  refunds  totaling
approximately  $30 million were made against the Company.  The Company is unable
at this time to predict the final outcome of this matter or the amount,  if any,
that will ultimately be refunded.  As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company
had on deposit $24.5 million and $28.1 million, respectively,  including accrued
interest,  in an  escrow  account  and had  corresponding  obligations  for this
litigation   recorded  in  other  current   liabilities   in  the   accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. During 2001 and 2000, the Company paid $4.7 million
and $3.9  million,  respectively,  in  partial  settlement  of  original  claims
presented under this litigation.

       Lease  agreements.  The  Company  leases equipment and  office facilities
under  noncancellable  operating  leases on which  rental  expense for the years
ended  December 31, 2001,  2000 and 1999 was  approximately  $6.6 million,  $7.0
million and $6.9 million,  respectively.  Future minimum lease commitments under
noncancellable  operating  leases at  December  31,  2001,  including  leases of
offshore production facilities, are as follows (in thousands):

       2002................................................   $  5,942
       2003................................................   $ 32,067
       2004................................................   $ 31,852
       2005................................................   $ 29,700
       2006................................................   $ 16,530
       Thereafter..........................................   $ 28,538

NOTE H.        Derivative Financial Instruments

Hedge Derivatives

       The Company,  from time to time,  uses derivative  instruments to  manage
interest rate, commodity price and currency exchange rate risks.

       Fair value  hedging strategy.  The Company  monitors capital  markets and
trends to identify  opportunities  to enter into interest rate swaps to minimize
its costs of capital.  During April 2000 and May 2001, the Company  entered into
interest rate swap  agreements  to hedge the fair value of the  Company's  8-7/8
percent  Senior  Notes due April 15,  2005 and 8-1/4  percent  Senior  Notes due
August 15, 2007, respectively. The terms of the 8-7/8 percent interest rate swap
agreements  provided for an aggregate  notional  amount of $150 million of debt;
had a scheduled  maturity on April 15, 2005;  required the counterparties to pay
the Company a fixed annual rate of 8-7/8  percent on the notional  amount;  and,
required  the Company to pay the  counterparties  a variable  annual rate on the
notional amount equal to the periodic three-month  LIBOR plus a weighted average
margin rate of 178.2 basis  points.  The terms of the  Company's  8-1/4  percent
interest rate swap agreements  provided for an aggregate notional amount of $150
million of debt;  had a scheduled  maturity  on August 15,  2007;  required  the
counterparties  to pay the  Company a  fixed annual rate of 8-1/4 percent on the

                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


notional amount;  and, required the Company to pay the counterparties a variable
rate on the notional  amounts equal to LIBOR plus a weighted average margin rate
of 238.1 basis points.  On September 21, 2001, the Company  terminated its 8-7/8
percent  and  8-1/4  percent  interest  rate  swaps for  $23.3  million  of cash
proceeds,  including  accrued  interest.  As of December 31, 2001,  the carrying
value of the senior notes include $18.4 million  attributable to the unamortized
portion of these  deferred hedge gains.  The remaining  portions of the deferred
hedge  gains will be  amortized  as  reductions  to  interest  expense  over the
remaining original terms of the interest rate swaps.

       During November 2001,  The Company  entered into new  interest  rate swap
agreements to hedge the fair value of the Company's  6-1/2 percent  Senior Notes
due  January  15,  2008 and 8-1/4  percent  Senior  Notes due August  15,  2007,
respectively.  The  terms of the 6-1/2  percent  interest  rate swap  agreements
provide  for an  aggregate  notional  amount  of $350  million  of debt;  have a
scheduled  maturity on January 15, 2008;  require the  counterparties to pay the
Company a fixed  annual  rate of 6-1/2  percent  on the  notional  amount;  and,
require  the  Company to pay the  counterparties  a variable  annual rate on the
notional amount equal to the periodic  six-month  LIBOR plus a weighted  average
margin rate of 202.2 basis points.  The terms of the Company's new 8-1/4 percent
interest rate swap agreements  provide for an aggregate  notional amount of $150
million of debt;  have a  scheduled  maturity  on August 15,  2007;  require the
counterparties  to pay the Company a fixed  annual rate of 8-1/4  percent on the
notional amount;  and, require the Company to pay the  counterparties a variable
rate on the  notional  amounts  equal to the  periodic  six-month  LIBOR  plus a
weighted average margin rate of 337.0 basis points.

       The terms  of the fair  value hedges  described above perfectly match the
terms of the  underlying  senior  notes.  Thus,  the Company did not exclude any
component  of the  derivatives'  gains or losses from the  measurement  of hedge
effectiveness.

       Cash flow hedging  strategy.  The  Company  utilizes  commodity  swap and
collar contracts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities
the Company  produces  and sells,  (ii)  support the  Company's  annual  capital
budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated
with certain  capital  projects.  The Company also  utilizes  interest rate swap
agreements  to reduce the effect of interest  rate  volatility  on the Company's
variable  rate  line  of  credit  indebtedness  and  forward  currency  exchange
agreements to reduce the effect of U.S.  dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate
volatility.

       Oil.  All material sales contracts governing the Company's oil production
have  been tied  directly  or  indirectly  to the New York  Mercantile  Exchange
("NYMEX") prices.  The following table sets forth the Company's  outstanding oil
hedge contracts and the weighted  average NYMEX prices for those contracts as of
December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>

                                                                                                  Yearly
                                     First          Second         Third           Fourth       Outstanding
                                    Quarter         Quarter        Quarter         Quarter        Average
                                 -------------   -------------   ------------   -------------  -------------
<S>                              <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Daily oil production:
   2002 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)..............         17,000           8,000          8,000           5,000          9,463
     Price per Bbl.............  $       27.41   $       26.35   $      24.76   $       24.45  $       26.23

   2002 - Collar Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)..............          6,000           6,000            -               -            2,975
     Price per Bbl.............  $25.00-$28.61   $25.00-$28.61   $        -     $         -    $25.00-$28.61

   2003 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)..............          6,000           6,000            -               -            2,975
     Price per Bbl.............  $       24.02   $       24.02   $        -     $         -    $       24.02

</TABLE>


                                       65

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       The Company reports  average oil prices  per Bbl including the effects of
oil quality,  gathering and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's oil prices,  both reported
(including hedge results) and realized  (excluding  hedge results),  and the net
effect of settlements of oil price hedges to revenue:
<TABLE>

                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------
                                                             2001      2000      1999
                                                           -------   -------   -------

<S>                                                        <C>       <C>       <C>
     Average price reported per Bbl....................    $ 24.12   $ 24.01   $ 15.36
     Average price realized per Bbl....................    $ 23.88   $ 28.81   $ 16.23
     Addition (reduction) to revenue (in millions).....    $   3.0   $ (60.1)  $ (13.4)
</TABLE>

        Natural gas liquids prices.   During the years ended  December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.

       Gas prices.  The Company employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between  NYMEX  prices and actual index  prices.  The
following table sets forth the Company's outstanding gas hedge contracts and the
weighted average index prices for those contracts as of December 31, 2001:
<TABLE>

                                                                                                Yearly
                                           First        Second         Third        Fourth    Outstanding
                                          Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter     Average
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------   ----------   -----------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>
Daily gas production:
   2002 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................      140,000       140,000       190,000      190,000       165,205
     Index price per MMBtu...........  $      4.28   $      4.28   $      4.13   $     4.14   $      4.19

   2002 - Collar Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................       20,000        20,000        20,000       20,000        20,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........  $4.50-$6.00   $4.50-$6.00   $4.50-$6.00   $4.50-$6.00  $4.50-$6.00

   2003 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................      117,500       117,500       117,500      117,500       117,500
     Index price per MMBtu...........  $      3.62   $      3.62   $      3.62   $     3.62   $      3.62

   2004 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................      165,000       165,000       165,000      165,000       165,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........  $      3.84   $      3.84   $      3.84   $     3.84   $      3.84

   2005 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................       50,000        50,000        50,000       50,000        50,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........  $      3.63   $      3.63   $      3.63   $     3.63   $      3.63
</TABLE>

       The Company  reports average gas  prices per Mcf including the effects of
Btu content,  gathering and  transportation  costs, gas processing and shrinkage
and the net  effect  of the gas  hedges.  The  following  table  sets  forth the
Company's  gas prices,  both  reported  (including  hedge  results) and realized
(excluding hedge results), and the net effect of settlements of gas price hedges
to revenue:
<TABLE>
                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------
                                                             2001      2000      1999
                                                           -------   -------   -------

<S>                                                        <C>       <C>       <C>
     Average price reported per Mcf...................     $  3.23   $  2.81   $  1.90
     Average price realized per Mcf...................     $  3.20   $  3.03   $  1.84
     Addition/(reduction) to revenue (in millions)....     $   3.0   $ (29.0)  $   9.4
</TABLE>


                                       66

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


      Interest  rates.  During the year  ended  December 31,  2001,  the Company
entered into interest rate swap agreements and designated the swap agreements as
being cash flow hedges of the interest rate volatility associated with a portion
of the  Company's  variable rate line of credit  indebtedness.  The terms of the
interest rate swap  agreements  provide for an aggregate  notional amount of $55
million of debt;  commenced on May 21, 2001 and mature on May 20, 2002;  require
the  counterparties  to pay the Company a variable  rate equal to the  six-month
LIBOR plus 125 basis points;  and, require the Company to pay the counterparties
a weighted  average  rate of 5.43 percent on the  notional  amount.  The Company
recognizes  no  ineffectiveness  associated  with  changes in the fair values of
these derivative instruments.

      Foreign currency rates.  During the  fourth  quarter of 2001,  the Company
entered into forward  agreements  to exchange an  aggregate  $24.8  million U.S.
dollars during 2002 for Canadian  dollars at a weighted average exchange rate of
 .6266 U.S. dollars for 1.0 Canadian  dollar.  These agreements are designated as
hedges of the exchange rate risk associated  with  forecasted  Canadian sales of
gas under U.S. dollar denominated sales agreements.  The Company does not expect
to recognize any  ineffectiveness  associated with changes in the fair values of
these derivative instruments.

      Hedge ineffectiveness and excluded items.  During the  year ended December
31, 2001, the Company  recognized  other expense of $9.1 million  related to the
ineffective portions of its cash flow hedging instruments.  Additionally,  based
on SFAS 133  interpretive  guidance that was in effect prior to April 2001,  the
Company excluded from the measurement of hedge effectiveness changes in the time
and  volatility  value  components of collar  contracts  designated as cash flow
hedges. Associated therewith, the Company recorded other expense of $2.4 million
during the year ended December 31, 2001. In April 2001, the Company discontinued
the  exclusion  of time  value  and  volatility  from the  measurement  of hedge
effectiveness.

      Accumulated other comprehensive income - deferred hedge  gains and losses,
net.  As  described  in Note B, the  Company  recorded a  transition  adjustment
associated with the January 1, 2001 adoption of the provisions of SFAS 133 which
reduced  stockholders' equity by $197.4 million. The adjustment to stockholders'
equity was comprised of the fair value of the Company's  derivative  instruments
that were designated as commodity cash flow hedges, whose fair value amounted to
a  liability  of $139.6  million  as of January 1,  2001,  and  deferred  losses
realized from the early termination of cash flow hedges of $57.8 million.  These
adjustments  to  stockholders'  equity  were  classified  as  Accumulated  other
comprehensive  income  ("AOCI") - deferred hedge gains and losses at transition.
As of December 31, 2001, AOCI - deferred hedge gains and losses represents a net
deferred  gain of $201.0  million.  The AOCI - deferred  hedge  gains and losses
balance as of December 31, 2001 was  comprised of $177.7  million of  unrealized
deferred hedge gains on the effective portions of open commodity,  interest rate
and forward  currency  rate cash flow hedges and $23.3  million of net  deferred
gains on  terminated  cash flow hedges.  The  increase in AOCI - deferred  hedge
gains and losses since January 1, 2001 is primarily  attributable to the Company
entering into  additional  oil and gas hedging  agreements  for future  periods,
coupled  with a decrease in future  commodity  prices at year end as compared to
the commodity prices  stipulated in the new and existing hedge  agreements.  The
unrealized  deferred  hedge gains  associated  with open cash flow hedges remain
subject to market price  fluctuations until the position is either settled under
the terms of the hedge  agreement or  terminated  prior to  settlement.  The net
deferred gains on terminated cash flow hedges is fixed.

      During the  twelve month  period ending  December 31,  2002,  the  Company
expects to reclassify $126.3 million of deferred gains associated with open cash
flow hedges and $42.3  million of net deferred  losses on  terminated  cash flow
hedges from AOCI - deferred  hedge gains and losses to oil and gas revenue.  The
following  table sets forth the scheduled  reclassifications  of deferred  hedge
gains and (losses) on terminated cash flow hedges that will be recognized in the
Company's future oil and gas revenues:


                                       67

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

<TABLE>

                                          First      Second       Third      Fourth      Total
                                         Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter      Year
                                        ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   --------
                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
      2002:
        Oil revenue.................    $  2,302    $  1,640    $   -       $    -      $  3,942
        Gas revenue.................     (11,390)    (11,516)    (11,643)    (11,643)    (46,192)
                                         --------    -------     -------     -------     -------
                                        $ (9,088)   $ (9,876)   $(11,643)   $(11,643)   $(42,250)

      2003 gas revenue..............    $ 12,320    $ 12,300    $ 12,276    $ 12,117    $ 49,013
      2004 gas revenue..............    $  4,195    $  4,146    $  4,137    $  4,084    $ 16,562
</TABLE>

Non-hedge Derivatives

       Btu  swap  agreements.  The  Company  is  a  party  to  certain  Btu swap
agreements  that  mature  at the end of  2004.  The Btu swap  agreements  do not
qualify as hedges.  The  Company  has  recorded  mark-to-market  adjustments  to
decrease  the  carrying  value of the Btu swap  liability by $.7 million and $.2
million during the years ended December 31, 2001 and 1999, respectively,  and to
increase the carrying  value of the Btu swap  liability by $14.6 million  during
the year ended December 31, 2000.

       During 2001, the Company entered into offsetting Btu swap agreements that
have fixed the  Company's  remaining  obligations  associated  with the Btu swap
agreements.  The undiscounted future settlement obligations of the Company under
the Btu swap  agreements  are $7.2  million per year for each of 2002,  2003 and
2004.

       Foreign currency agreements. Prior to their maturity in 2000, the Company
was a party to a series of forward  foreign  exchange rate swap  agreements that
exchanged Canadian dollars for U.S. dollars.  These contracts did not qualify as
hedges. The Company recorded mark-to-market adjustments to increase the carrying
value of the foreign  exchange swap  liabilities by $1.9 million during 2000 and
to decrease the carrying value of the foreign  exchange swap liabilities by $5.9
million during 1999.

       Other non-hedge commodity derivatives. During 1999, the Company sold call
options that provided the  counterparties  an option to exercise calls either on
10,000 Bbls per day of oil,  at a strike  price of $20.00 per Bbl, or on 100,000
MMBtu per day of gas,  at a weighted  average  strike  price of $2.75 per MMBtu.
These contracts, which matured during 2000, did not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment.  The Company  recorded  mark-to-market  adjustments  to increase  the
carrying  value of the  contract  liability by $42.0  million and $21.2  million
during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

NOTE I.        Major Customers and Derivative Counterparties

       Sales to major customers.  The Company's share of  oil and gas production
is sold to various  purchasers.  The Company is of the opinion  that the loss of
any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company
to sell its oil and gas production.

       The following customers individually  accounted for 10 percent or more of
the consolidated oil, NGL and gas revenues of the Company during the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>
                                                         Percentage of Consolidated
                                                          Oil, NGL and Gas Revenues
                                                        ----------------------------
                                                         2001       2000       1999
                                                        ------     ------     ------

<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>
       Williams Energy Services......................     11         13         11
       Anadarko Petroleum Corporation................     10          6          5
</TABLE>

                                       68

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999



       At  December  31,  2001,  the  amounts  receivable from  Williams Energy
Services and Anadarko Petroleum  Corporation were $9.0 million and $8.0 million,
respectively, which are included in the caption "Accounts receivable - trade" in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

       Derivative counterparties.  The Company  uses credit  and other financial
criteria to evaluate the credit  standing of, and to select,  counterparties  to
its derivative  instruments.  Although the Company does not obtain collateral or
otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit
risk is mitigated by the Company's  credit risk policies and  procedures.  As of
December 31, 2001,  the Company has $7.8 million of derivative  assets for which
Enron North America Corp is the Company's  counterparty.  Associated  therewith,
the Company recognized a $6.0 million bad debt expense during the fourth quarter
of 2001,  which is included in other  expense in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2001.

NOTE J.        Interest and Other Income

       The Company  recorded  interest and other income of $21.8 million,  $25.8
million and $89.7  million  during the years ended  December 31, 2001,  2000 and
1999.  The major  categories  of the  Company's  interest  and other  income are
summarized in the following table:
<TABLE>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                    2001       2000       1999
                                                  -------    -------    --------
                                                         (in thousands)

<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
     Purchase option fees (a).................    $   -      $   -      $ 41,808
     Excise tax income (b)....................      4,126      6,915      30,200
     Production payment income................      5,552      1,262         670
     Interest income..........................      2,128      3,906       2,145
     Seismic data sales.......................      1,841      1,148          79
     Foreign exchange gains...................        223        220       2,629
     Other income.............................      7,908     12,324      12,126
                                                   ------     ------     -------
                                                  $21,778    $25,775    $ 89,657
                                                   ======     ======     =======
- ---------------
<FN>
(a)  In  December  1998,  the Company  announced  the sale of an  exclusive  and
     irrevocable  option  to  purchase  certain  oil and gas  properties  of the
     Company.  The option  holder was unable to complete  the  purchase  and the
     option expired  unexecuted on March 31, 1999. In payment for the option and
     related  liquidated  damages,  the option  holder  paid the  Company  $41.8
     million, which was recorded as other income in 1999.

(b)  During  1999,  the Company  received an excise tax refund of $30.2  million
     which had not previously been recognized as an asset,  due to uncertainties
     surrounding  the  collectability  of the refund.  Accordingly,  the Company
     recognized the tax refund as other income during 1999.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE K.        Asset Divestitures

       During the  years ended  December 31,  2001,  2000 and 1999,  the Company
completed asset divestitures for net proceeds of $113.5 million,  $102.7 million
and  $420.5  million  (of  which  $390.5  million  in 1999 was  cash  proceeds),
respectively. Associated therewith, the Company recorded gains on disposition of
assets of $7.7  million and $34.2  million  during the years ended  December 31,
2001 and 2000,  and a loss on  disposition of assets of $24.2 million during the
year ended December 31, 1999.



                                       69

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       Prize divestitures.  On June 29,  1999,  the Company  completed a sale of
certain  United  States oil and gas producing  properties,  gas plants and other
assets  to  Prize.  The oil and gas  producing  assets  sold to  Prize  included
properties  located in the United  States Gulf Coast,  Mid Continent and Permian
Basin areas.

       In accordance  with the  terms of the purchase  and sale  agreement  (the
"Prize Divestiture"), the Company received net sales proceeds of $245.0 million,
comprised  of $215.0  million of cash and  2,307.693  shares of Prize  Preferred
having a 1999  liquidation  preference and fair value of $30.0  million.  During
1999, the Company recognized a loss of $46.4 million from the Prize Divestiture.
Prior to February 9, 2000, Prize was a closely held,  non-public  entity and the
fair  market  value of the Prize  Preferred  was not  readily  determinable.  On
February 9, 2000,  Prize  Common began to publicly  trade on the American  Stock
Exchange.  At that  time,  the  Company's  Prize  Preferred  was  exchanged  for
3,984,197 shares of Prize Series A 6% Convertible Preferred Stock ("Prize Senior
A Preferred").  On March 31, 2000, the Company and Prize converted the Company's
3,984,197  shares  of Prize  Senior A  Preferred  to  3,984,197  shares of Prize
Common,  received cash in lieu of 33,964 shares of preferred  in-kind  dividends
and sold to Prize 1,346,482 shares of the Prize Common for a combined cash total
of $18.6 million.  During 2000, the Company sold an additional  2,024,500 shares
of Prize Common in the open market for $41.1  million,  recording an  associated
gain on disposition  of assets of $34.3  million.  During 2001, the Company sold
its remaining  613,250 shares of Prize Common for $12.7 million of cash proceeds
and recognized an associated gain on disposition of assets of $8.1 million.  The
cash  proceeds  provided  from the sale of the  Prize  Common  are  included  in
proceeds from disposition of assets in the accompanying  Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000.

       Other  United  States  divestitures.  During  the year ended December 31,
2001,  the Company  received  $81.6 million of proceeds,  representing  deferred
hedge gains,  from the early  termination of derivatives  that are designated as
hedges of United States interest rate and commodity price risks.  See Note H for
information  regarding the Company's  derivative  instruments and deferred hedge
gains and losses.

       During the  year ended  December 31,  2000,  the  Company sold  an office
building in Midland,  Texas,  certain other assets and non-strategic oil and gas
properties  primarily  located in the United States Gulf Coast and Mid Continent
areas.  Associated with these divestitures,  the Company realized net divestment
proceeds of $43.0  million and recorded a net loss on  disposition  of assets of
$.4 million.  In addition to the Prize  Divestiture,  the Company completed 1999
divestitures of  non-strategic  United States oil and gas properties  located in
the South Texas Gulf Coast,  West Texas Permian Basin and North Dakota areas, an
East Texas gas facility and certain other assets for net cash proceeds of $116.2
million during 1999,  resulting in net gains on  divestitures of assets of $31.0
million.

       International divestitures.  During the year ended December 31, 2001, the
Company  received $3.8 million of proceeds,  representing  deferred  hedge gains
that  will be  recorded  as  increments  to 2003 gas  revenues,  from the  early
termination  of  derivatives  that are designated as hedges of 2003 Canadian gas
price risk.  During 2001,  the Company also  received  $12.0 million of proceeds
from the sale of certain  oil  properties  in Canada and $.4 million of proceeds
from the sale of other international assets. Associated with these transactions,
the Company recognized a net loss of $.8 million on disposition of these assets.
During 1999, the Company  completed the  divestitures  of certain  non-strategic
Canadian  oil and gas  properties,  gas  plants  and other  related  assets.  In
accordance with the terms of the Canadian divestitures, the Company received net
cash proceeds of $59.3 million and recognized a net loss of $8.8 million.

NOTE L.        Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

       During  the  year  ended  December  31,  1999,  the  Company assessed its
unproved oil and gas properties for impairment and, based thereon, recognized an
unproved property impairment  provision of $17.9 million.  The unproved property
impairment  provision  recognized  during  1999  reduced the  carrying  value of
certain East Texas gas properties.

                                       70

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


NOTE M.        Reorganization

       During 1998,  the Company  announced the  reorganization  of its domestic
operations by combining six domestic  operating  regions,  as well as other cost
reduction   initiatives  intended  to  allow  the  Company  to  realize  greater
operational and administrative efficiencies. Specific cost reduction initiatives
included the  relocation of most of the Company's  administrative  services from
Midland,  Texas to Irving, Texas; the closings of the Company's regional offices
in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma,  Corpus Christi,  Texas and Houston,  Texas; and the
termination of 350 employees.  The consolidation of  administrative  services to
Irving and the closing of the Corpus  Christi,  Texas  office were  completed in
1998.  The Company  completed  the closings of the  Houston,  Texas and Oklahoma
City,  Oklahoma offices during 1999 and further  centralized certain operational
functions in Irving, Texas. As a result of these reorganization initiatives, the
Company recognized reorganization charges of $8.5 million during 1999.

       The following  table  provides a  description  of the  components  of the
reorganization  charges and unpaid  portions  of the charges as of December  31,
2001,  2000 and 1999.  The unpaid  office  closing  amount at December  31, 2001
relates to a lease commitment on an office building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
<TABLE>

                                                                     Unpaid
                                           Total                  Portion as of
                                          Charges    Payments     December 31,
                                         --------    ---------    -------------
                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                      <C>         <C>          <C>
    2001:
      Office closings................    $    -      $     326      $    156
                                          =======     ========       =======
    2000:
      Office closings................    $    -      $   1,155      $    482
      Relocation.....................         -            230           -
                                          -------     --------       -------
                                         $    -      $   1,385      $    482
                                          =======     ========       =======
    1999:
      Employee terminations..........    $  3,125    $   7,805      $    -
      Office closings................         340        2,233         1,637
      Relocation.....................       4,998        4,768           230
      Other..........................          71           71           -
                                          -------     --------       -------
                                         $  8,534    $  14,877      $  1,867
                                          =======     ========       =======
</TABLE>

NOTE N.        Other Expense

       The  following  table  provides  the  components  of the  Company's other
expense during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                                   Years Ended December 31,
                                                                -----------------------------
                                                                 2001       2000       1999
                                                                -------    -------    -------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
     Derivative ineffectiveness and mark-to-market
        provisions (see Note H)...............................  $11,458    $58,518    $15,089
     Trading security mark-to-market provisions (a)...........      -          -       11,875
     Gas marketing losses (b).................................    9,850        -          -
     Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange losses (c)...    8,474         80        175
     Bad debt expense (recovery) (see Note I).................    6,152         65       (729)
     Other charges............................................    3,654      8,568      8,221
                                                                 ------     ------     ------
                                                                $39,588    $67,231    $34,631
                                                                 ======     ======     ======
- ---------------

(a)  During 1999,  the Company  owned four  million  shares of common stock of a
     non-affiliated public entity for trading purposes. Prior to the disposition
     of the shares in 1999, the Company  recognized an $11.9 million  decline in
     the fair value of the investment as a charge to other expense.

</TABLE>

                                       71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


(b)  The Company's  Canadian  operations  periodically  purchase third party gas
     volumes for  transport to and resale at a Chicago  sales point.  Associated
     therewith,  the Company  recognized $9.9 million of gas marketing losses in
     other expenses during 2001.

(c)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency  remeasurement  and transaction gains and losses.
     In early January  2002,  the Argentine  government  severed the  one-to-one
     relationship  between the value of the Argentine peso and the U.S.  dollar,
     which is the  functional  currency of the Company's  Argentine  operations.
     Consequently,  the Company  remeasured  the peso  denominated  monetary net
     assets and  adjusted  the lease and well  equipment  inventory  balances to
     market values which resulted in a charge of $7.7 million in 2001.

NOTE O.        Income Taxes

       The Company  accounts for income taxes  in accordance with the provisions
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes".  The Company and its eligible  subsidiaries  file a consolidated  United
States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries  are not eligible to be
included  in the  consolidated  United  States  federal  income  tax  return and
separate  provisions for income taxes have been determined for these entities or
groups of entities. The tax returns and the amount of taxable income or loss are
subject to  examination  by United  States  federal,  state and  foreign  taxing
authorities.  Current and estimated tax payments of $11.7 million,  $4.6 million
and $800 thousand were made in 2001, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  In addition,
the Company received an income tax refund of $1.4 million in 1999.  During 2001,
2000 and  1999,  the  Company's  income  tax  provision  (benefit)  and  amounts
separately allocated were attributable to the following items:
<TABLE>

                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                       -----------------------------
                                                        2001       2000       1999
                                                       -------   --------   --------
                                                              (in thousands)

<S>                                                    <C>       <C>        <C>
     Income (loss) before extraordinary item........   $  4,016  $ (6,000)  $   (600)
     Changes in other comprehensive income:
       Deferred hedge gains and losses..............      2,293       -          -
       Cumulative translation adjustment............       (121)     (200)     1,600
                                                        -------   -------    -------
                                                       $  6,188  $ (6,200)  $  1,000
                                                        =======   =======    =======
</TABLE>

       Income  tax  provision  (benefit)  attributable to  income  (loss) before
extraordinary item consists of the following:
<TABLE>

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                     2001        2000       1999
                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
     Current:
       U.S. state and local...................    $   1,080   $     -     $     400
       Foreign................................       10,585       4,600      (1,000)
                                                   --------    --------    --------
                                                     11,665       4,600        (600)
                                                   --------    --------    --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal...........................          -           -        14,700
       Foreign................................       (7,649)    (10,600)    (14,700)
                                                   --------    --------    --------
                                                     (7,649)    (10,600)        -
                                                   --------    --------    --------
     Total....................................    $   4,016   $  (6,000)  $    (600)
                                                   ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>



                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


       Income (loss) before income taxes and  extraordinary item consists of the
following:
<TABLE>

                                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                                   ------------------------------
                                                                     2001       2000       1999
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
     Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item:
       U.S. federal.............................................   $140,045   $138,941   $(23,594)
       Foreign..................................................    (32,280)    19,558        534
                                                                    -------    -------    -------
                                                                   $107,765   $158,499   $(23,060)
                                                                    =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

       Reconciliations  of the  United  States  federal  statutory  rate  to the
Company's  effective  rate for income  (loss) before  extraordinary  item are as
follows:
<TABLE>

                                                                     2001       2000        1999
                                                                   --------   --------    --------

<S>                                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate............................     35.0       35.0       (35.0)
     Valuation allowance........................................    (27.5)     (30.9)      102.0
     Rate differential on foreign operations....................     (3.2)      (2.9)      (68.1)
     Other......................................................      (.6)      (5.0)       (1.5)
                                                                   ------     ------      ------
     Consolidated effective tax rate............................      3.7       (3.8)       (2.6)
                                                                   ======     ======      ======
</TABLE>

       The tax effects  of temporary  differences that  give rise to significant
portions  of the  deferred  tax  assets and  deferred  tax  liabilities  were as
follows:
<TABLE>
                                                                           December 31,
                                                                      -----------------------
                                                                         2001         2000
                                                                      ---------     ---------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                                   <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards................................    $ 341,206     $ 350,916
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards....................        1,565         1,565
  Other...........................................................      106,365       105,792
                                                                       --------      --------
    Total deferred tax assets.....................................      449,136       458,273
  Valuation allowance.............................................     (244,742)     (283,400)
                                                                       --------      --------
    Net deferred tax assets.......................................      204,394       174,873
                                                                       --------      --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to differences in
    basis and depletion and the deduction of intangible
    drilling costs for tax purposes...............................      115,524        82,551
  Other...........................................................       11,919        31,622
                                                                       --------      --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities................................      127,443       114,173
                                                                       --------      --------
    Net deferred tax asset........................................    $  76,951     $  60,700
                                                                       ========      ========
</TABLE>

       Realization of  deferred tax  assets  associated with  net operating loss
carryforwards   ("NOLs")  and  other  credit  carryforwards  is  dependent  upon
generating  sufficient  taxable  income prior to their  expiration.  The Company
believes  that  there is a risk that  certain  of these  NOLs and  other  credit
carryforwards  may expire unused and,  accordingly,  has established a valuation
allowance of $244.7 million  against them.  Although  realization is not assured
for the  remaining  deferred tax asset,  the Company  believes it is more likely
than  not  that  they  will be  realized  through  future  taxable  earnings  or
alternative tax planning strategies.  However, the net deferred tax assets could
be reduced further if the Company's estimate of taxable income in future periods
is  significantly  reduced or alternative tax planning  strategies are no longer
viable.

       At December 31,  2001,  the Company had NOLs for United States, Canadian,
South African and Tunisian income tax purposes of $881.8 million, $40.6 million,
$39.2  million and $4.6  million,  respectively,  which are  available to offset
future regular  taxable  income in each  respective  tax  jurisdiction,  if any.
Additionally,  at December 31, 2001, the Company has alternative minimum tax net

                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


operating  loss  carryforwards  ("AMT  NOLs")  in the  United  States  of $766.8
million,  which are  available  to reduce  future  alternative  minimum  taxable
income, if any. These carryforwards expire as follows:
<TABLE>

                                            U.S.
                                  ----------------------     Canada      South Africa    Tunisia
    Expiration Date                  NOL        AMT NOL        NOL            NOL          NOL
    ---------------               ---------    ---------    ---------    ------------    --------
                                                          (in thousands)

<S>                               <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>
    December 31, 2002..........   $   5,109    $   2,695    $     -        $    -        $    -
    December 31, 2003..........         838          -            -             -             -
    December 31, 2005..........      11,049       10,762       34,822           -             -
    December 31, 2006..........      30,834       12,254        5,738           -             -
    December 31, 2007..........     104,107      101,151          -             -             -
    December 31, 2008..........     112,508      106,558          -             -             -
    December 31, 2009..........     129,227      102,727          -             -             -
    December 31, 2010..........     124,859      110,961          -             -             -
    December 31, 2011..........       6,521        4,045          -             -             -
    December 31, 2012..........      68,542       58,930          -             -             -
    December 31, 2018..........     127,925       98,559          -             -             -
    December 31, 2019..........     145,999      144,836          -             -             -
    December 31, 2020..........      14,235       13,296          -             -             -
    Indefinite.................         -            -            -          39,161         4,569
                                   --------     --------     --------       -------       -------
       Total...................   $ 881,753    $ 766,774    $  40,560      $ 39,161      $  4,569
                                   ========     ========     ========       =======       =======
</TABLE>

       The Company believes  $180.0 million of the NOLs and AMT NOLs are subject
to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and are limited in each taxable year
to approximately $20.0 million.

NOTE P.        Geographic Operating Segment Information

       The Company has  operations in only one industry segment,  that being the
oil and gas  exploration  and  production  industry;  however,  the  Company  is
organizationally structured along geographic operating segments, or regions. The
Company has reportable  operations in the United  States,  Argentina and Canada.
Other foreign is primarily  comprised of  operations in South Africa,  Gabon and
Tunisia.

       The following  table  provides  the  geographic  operating  segment  data
required by Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information",  as well as results of
operations  of oil  and  gas  producing  activities  required  by  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
Activities".  Geographic operating segment income tax benefits (provisions) have
been   determined   based  on  statutory  rates  existing  in  the  various  tax
jurisdictions  where  the  Company  has oil and gas  producing  activities.  The
"Headquarters and Other" table column includes revenues,  expenses, additions to
properties,  plants and equipment and assets that are not routinely  included in
the earnings  measures or  attributes  internally  reported to  management  on a
geographic operating segment basis.

                                       74

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
<TABLE>


                                                United                               Other     Headquarters   Consolidated
                                                States     Argentina    Canada      Foreign      and Other        Total
                                              ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  649,635   $ 130,241   $  67,146   $     -      $      -      $  847,022
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -           -          21,778        21,778
   Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.....         224         -        (1,339)        -           8,796         7,681
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 649,859     130,241      65,807         -          30,574       876,481
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Production costs.........................     170,578      26,614      12,472         -             -         209,664
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     128,477      51,391      28,868         -          13,896       222,632
   Exploration and abandonments.............      70,049      23,857       9,882      24,118           -         127,906
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -           -          36,968        36,968
   Interest.................................         -           -           -           -         131,958       131,958
   Other....................................         -           -           -           -          39,588        39,588
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 369,104     101,862      51,222      24,118       222,410       768,716
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     extraordinary items....................     280,755      28,379      14,585     (24,118)     (191,836)      107,765
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........     (98,264)     (9,933)     (6,216)      8,441       101,956        (4,016)
                                               --------     -------     -------     -------      --------      ---------
   Income (loss) before extraordinary items.  $  182,491   $  18,446   $   8,369   $ (15,677)   $  (89,880)   $  103,749
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  454,229   $  98,311   $  36,048   $  57,972    $      -      $  646,560
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $2,212,540   $ 710,702   $ 187,841   $  53,314    $  106,656    $3,271,053
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  649,273   $ 140,990   $  62,475   $     -      $      -      $  852,738
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -           -          25,775        25,775
   Gain on disposition of assets............       4,690         -           335         -          29,159        34,184
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 653,963     140,990      62,810         -          54,934       912,697
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Production costs.........................     155,075      24,417       9,773         -             -         189,265
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     121,932      52,141      25,132         -          15,733       214,938
   Exploration and abandonments.............      40,867      25,388       5,131      16,164           -          87,550
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -           -          33,262        33,262
   Interest.................................         -           -           -           -         161,952       161,952
   Other....................................         -           -           -           -          67,231        67,231
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 317,874     101,946      40,036      16,164       278,178       754,198
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     extraordinary item.....................     336,089      39,044      22,774     (16,164)     (223,244)      158,499
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........    (117,631)    (13,665)    (10,162)      5,657       141,801         6,000
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Income (loss) before extraordinary item..  $  218,458   $  25,379   $  12,612   $ (10,507)   $  (81,443)   $  164,499
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  204,122   $  68,430   $  43,591   $  23,597    $      -      $  339,740
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $1,899,633   $ 702,868   $ 227,250   $  16,552    $  108,132    $2,954,435
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  502,585   $  83,697   $  58,364   $     -      $      -      $  644,646
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -           -          89,657        89,657
   Loss on disposition of assets............     (14,736)        -        (8,836)        -            (596)      (24,168)
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 487,849      83,697      49,528         -          89,061       710,135
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Production costs.........................     124,654      18,268      16,608         -             -         159,530
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     153,775      38,874      25,601         -          17,797       236,047
   Impairment of oil and gas properties.....      17,894         -           -           -             -          17,894
   Exploration and abandonments.............      41,225      14,009       3,509       7,231           -          65,974
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -           -          40,241        40,241
   Reorganization...........................         -           -           -           -           8,534         8,534
   Interest.................................         -           -           -           -         170,344       170,344
   Other....................................         -           -           -           -          34,631        34,631
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
                                                 337,548      71,151      45,718       7,231       271,547       733,195
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes........     150,301      12,546       3,810      (7,231)     (182,486)      (23,060)
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........     (52,605)     (4,140)     (1,699)      2,531        56,513           600
                                               ---------    --------    --------    --------     ---------     ---------
   Net income (loss)........................  $   97,696   $   8,406   $   2,111   $  (4,700)   $ (125,973)   $  (22,460)
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  105,663   $  76,654   $  11,552   $   7,257    $      -      $  201,126
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $1,865,441   $ 734,382   $ 218,526   $   8,289    $  102,835    $2,929,473
                                               =========    ========    ========    ========     =========     =========
</TABLE>

                                       75

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999



NOTE Q.        Income (Loss) Per Share Before Extraordinary Items

       Basic income (loss) per share  before extraordinary  items is computed by
dividing income (loss) before extraordinary items by the weighted average number
of common shares  outstanding for the period.  The computation of diluted income
(loss) per share before extraordinary items reflects the potential dilution that
could  occur  if  securities  or other  contracts  to issue  common  stock  were
exercised or  converted  into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common
stock that would then share in the earnings of the entity.

       The following table  is a reconciliation of the  basic and diluted income
(loss) per share before  extraordinary  items  computations  for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                                   -------------------------------------
                                                                      2001         2000          1999
                                                                   ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                  (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                                                <C>           <C>           <C>
  Basic and diluted income (loss) before extraordinary items....   $ 103,749     $ 164,499     $ (22,460)
  Weighted average common shares outstanding:
    Basic.......................................................      98,529        99,378       100,307
    Dilutive common stock options (a)...........................       1,185           385           -
                                                                    --------      --------      --------
    Diluted.....................................................      99,714        99,763       100,307
                                                                    ========      ========      ========
  Income (loss) per share before extraordinary items:
    Basic.......................................................   $    1.05     $    1.65     $    (.22)
    Diluted.....................................................   $    1.04     $    1.65     $    (.22)
- ---------------
<FN>

(a)  Common stock options to purchase  3,595,880  shares,  4,911,749  shares and
     5,274,964  shares of common stock were  outstanding but not included in the
     computations  of  diluted  net income  (loss) per share for 2001,  2000 and
     1999, respectively, because the exercise prices of the options were greater
     than  the  average   market  price  of  the  common  shares  and  would  be
     anti-dilutive  to  the  computations.   In-the-money  options  representing
     158,556  weighted  average  equivalent  shares  of  common  stock  were not
     included in the  computation of diluted net loss per share for 1999,  since
     they have a dilutive effect to the period's net loss.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE R.       Pioneer USA

       Pioneer USA  is a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the  Company that has fully
and unconditionally  guaranteed certain debt securities of the Company (see Note
D  above).  The  Company  has not  prepared  financial  statements  and  related
disclosures  for Pioneer USA under  separate  cover  because  management  of the
Company has determined  that such  information is not material to investors.  In
accordance with practices  accepted by the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission,   the  Company  has  prepared   Consolidating   Condensed  Financial
Statements  in order to  quantify  the  assets of  Pioneer  USA as a  subsidiary
guarantor.  The following  Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheets as of December
31, 2001 and 2000, and Consolidating  Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
Income (Loss) and Consolidating Condensed Statements of Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 present financial information for Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company as the Parent on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any
investments in subsidiaries under the equity method),  financial information for
Pioneer USA on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any  investment in  non-guarantor
subsidiaries  under  the  equity  method),  financial  information  for the non-
guarantor subsidiaries of the Company on a consolidated basis, the consolidation
and elimination  entries  necessary to arrive at the information for the Company
on a  consolidated  basis,  and the financial  information  for the Company on a
consolidated basis.  Pioneer USA is not restricted from making  distributions to
the Company.


                                       76

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2001
<TABLE>

                                              Pioneer
                                              Natural
                                             Resources                     Non-
                                              Company      Pioneer      Guarantor                       The
                                             (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                            ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------  -----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $       79   $    10,900   $    3,355     $             $    14,334
  Other current assets....................   1,540,985    (1,125,968)    (173,708)                      241,309
                                             ---------    ----------     --------                    ----------
      Total current assets................   1,541,064    (1,115,068)    (170,353)                      255,643
                                             ---------    ----------     --------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.....................         -       2,688,962    1,002,821                     3,691,783
    Unproved properties...................         -          25,222      162,563                       187,785
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization..........................         -        (815,323)    (279,987)                   (1,095,310)
                                             ---------    ----------     --------                    ----------
                                                   -       1,898,861      885,397                     2,784,258
                                             ---------    ----------     --------                    ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................      82,811           -          1,508                        84,319
Other property and equipment, net.........         -          17,881        3,679                        21,560
Other assets, net.........................      15,911        81,356       28,006                       125,273
Investment in subsidiaries................   1,060,457        87,636          -        (1,148,093)          -
                                             ---------    ----------     --------                    ----------
                                            $2,700,243   $   970,666   $  748,237                   $ 3,271,053
                                             =========    ==========    =========                    ==========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Total current liabilities.................  $   30,745   $   176,442   $   21,022     $             $   228,209
Long-term debt, less current maturities...   1,577,304           -            -                       1,577,304
Other noncurrent liabilities..............      19,582       124,552       22,249                       166,383
Deferred income taxes.....................         -             -         13,768                        13,768
Stockholders' equity......................   1,072,612       669,672      691,198      (1,148,093)    1,285,389
Commitments and contingencies.............         -             -            -                             -
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
                                            $2,700,243   $   970,666   $  748,237                   $ 3,271,053
                                             =========    ==========    =========                    ==========
</TABLE>


                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2000
<TABLE>
                                              Pioneer
                                              Natural
                                             Resources                     Non-
                                              Company      Pioneer      Guarantor                       The
                                             (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                            ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------  -----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $       15   $    18,387   $    7,757     $             $    26,159
  Other current assets....................   2,006,496    (1,245,546)    (595,718)                      165,232
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
      Total current assets................   2,006,511    (1,227,159)    (587,961)                      191,391
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.....................         -       2,291,872      896,017                     3,187,889
    Unproved properties...................         -          28,103      201,102                       229,205
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization..........................         -        (692,250)    (209,889)                     (902,139)
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
                                                   -       1,627,725      887,230                     2,514,955
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................      84,400           -            -                          84,400
Other property and equipment, net.........         -          20,823        4,801                        25,624
Other assets, net.........................      18,877        89,632       29,556                       138,065
Investment in subsidiaries................     347,370       100,192          -          (447,562)           -
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                    ----------
                                            $2,457,158   $   611,213   $  333,626                   $ 2,954,435
                                             =========    ==========    =========                    ==========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Total current liabilities.................  $   37,889   $   140,415   $   38,210     $             $   216,514
Long-term debt, less current maturities...   1,578,776           -            -                       1,578,776
Other noncurrent liabilities..............         -         190,476       35,264                       225,740
Deferred income taxes.....................         -             -         28,500                        28,500
Stockholders' equity......................     840,493       280,322      231,652        (447,562)      904,905
Commitments and contingencies.............
                                             ---------    ----------    ---------                   -----------
                                            $2,457,158   $   611,213   $  333,626                   $ 2,954,435
                                             =========    ==========    =========                    ==========
</TABLE>


                                       77

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 626,964     $ 220,058      $     -         $           $ 847,022
  Interest and other....................          368      14,415         6,995            -                        21,778
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................          -         8,524          (843)           -                         7,681
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                                  368     649,903       226,210            -                       876,481
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       168,287        41,377            -                       209,664
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization        -       135,838        86,794            -                       222,632
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        73,649        54,257            -                       127,906
  General and administrative............          804      25,476        10,688            -                        36,968
  Interest..............................       31,261      83,473        17,224            -                       131,958
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..     (135,459)      5,588           -              -          129,871          -
  Other.................................          -         9,247        30,341            -                        39,588
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                             (103,394)    501,558       240,681            -                       768,716
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Income (loss) before income taxes.......      103,762     148,345       (14,471)           -                       107,765
Income tax provision....................          -          (783)       (3,220)           (13)                     (4,016)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Income (loss) before extraordinary items      103,762     147,562       (17,691)           (13)                    103,749
Extraordinary items - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt................       (3,753)        -             -              -                        (3,753)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Net income (loss).......................      100,009     147,562       (17,691)           (13)                     99,996
Other comprehensive income:
  Deferred hedge gains and losses:
    Transition adjustment...............          -      (172,007)      (25,437)           -                      (197,444)
    Deferred hedge gains (losses).......         (578)    364,051        29,531            -                       393,004
    Net (gains) losses included in net
      income............................          135      (8,595)       13,946            -                         5,486
  Gains and losses on available for
    sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings losses..........          -           (45)          -              -                           (45)
    Gains included in net income........          -        (8,109)          -              -                        (8,109)
  Translation adjustment................          -           -         (11,173)           -                       (11,173)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Comprehensive income....................    $  99,566   $ 322,857     $ (10,824)     $     (13)                  $ 281,715
                                             ========    ========      ========       ========                    ========
</TABLE>


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 616,030     $ 236,708      $     -         $           $ 852,738
  Interest and other....................           29      13,808        11,938            -                        25,775
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................       (6,172)     36,946         3,410            -                        34,184
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                               (6,143)    666,784       252,056            -                       912,697
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       150,281        38,984            -                       189,265
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization        -       129,996        84,942            -                       214,938
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        43,938        43,612            -                        87,550
  General and administrative............          283      22,519        10,460            -                        33,262
  Interest..............................      (53,180)    151,026        64,106            -                       161,952
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..     (117,704)     (6,313)          -              -          124,017          -
  Other.................................          -        63,459         3,772            -                        67,231
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                             (170,601)    554,906       245,876            -                       754,198
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Income before income taxes..............      164,458     111,878         6,180            -                       158,499
Income tax benefit (provision)..........          -            (4)        5,963             41                       6,000
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Income before extraordinary item........      164,458     111,874        12,143             41                     164,499
Extraordinary item - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt................      (12,318)        -             -              -                       (12,318)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Net income..............................      152,140     111,874        12,143             41                     152,181
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available for
   sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings gains...........          -        33,828           -              -                        33,828
    Gains included in net income........          -       (25,674)          -              -                       (25,674)
  Translation adjustment................          -           -          (6,910)           -                        (6,910)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Comprehensive income....................    $ 152,140   $ 120,028     $   5,233      $      41                   $ 153,425
                                             ========    ========      ========       ========                    ========
</TABLE>


                                       78

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 470,059     $ 174,587      $     -         $           $ 644,646
  Interest and other....................          406      52,232        37,019            -                        89,657
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................          -        19,379       (43,547)           -                       (24,168)
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                                  406     541,670       168,059            -                       710,135
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       120,074        39,456            -                       159,530
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization        -       157,294        78,753            -                       236,047
  Impairment of oil and gas properties..          -        17,894           -              -                        17,894
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        43,133        22,841            -                        65,974
  General and administrative............        1,051      27,260        11,930            -                        40,241
  Reorganization........................          -         8,534           -              -                         8,534
  Interest..............................      (33,404)    145,184        58,564            -                       170,344
  Equity income (loss) from subsidiary..       39,672      (5,179)          -              -          (34,493)         -
  Other.................................          799      38,166        (4,334)           -                        34,631
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
                                                8,118     552,360       207,210            -                       733,195
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Loss before income taxes................       (7,712)    (10,690)      (39,151)           -                       (23,060)
Income tax benefit (provision)..........          -          (444)       15,792        (14,748)                        600
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Net loss................................       (7,712)    (11,134)      (23,359)       (14,748)                    (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment................          -           -           8,358            -                         8,358
                                             --------    --------      --------       --------                    --------
Comprehensive loss......................    $  (7,712)  $ (11,134)    $ (15,001)     $ (14,748)                  $ (14,102)
                                             ========    ========      ========       ========                    ========
</TABLE>



                                       79

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $   (10,503)  $ 307,776     $ 178,327    $   475,600
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisition, net of fees paid...........            -        11,119           -           11,119
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................         21,170      75,816        16,467        113,453
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................            -      (336,753)     (192,970)      (529,723)
  Other property additions, net............................            -       (10,717)       (6,873)       (17,590)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities        21,170    (260,535)     (183,376)      (422,741)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................        328,331         -             -          328,331
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................       (333,410)        -             -         (333,410)
  (Payments of) borrowings under noncurrent liabilities....            -       (54,728)        1,291        (53,437)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................        (13,028)        -             -          (13,028)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...          7,504         -             -            7,504
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities       (10,603)    (54,728)        1,291        (64,040)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......             64      (7,487)       (3,758)       (11,181)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -            (644)          (644)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............             15      18,387         7,757         26,159
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $        79   $  10,900     $   3,355    $    14,334
                                                                ==========    ========      ========     ==========
</TABLE>


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by operating activities................    $   213,491   $ 118,300     $  98,305    $   430,096
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................            -        92,342        10,394        102,736
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................            -      (179,861)     (119,821)      (299,682)
  Other property (additions) dispositions, net.............            -       (10,004)       12,449          2,445
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in investing activities.............            -       (97,523)      (96,978)      (194,501)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................        922,607         -             -          922,607
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................     (1,099,107)       (828)          -       (1,099,935)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities........................            -       (24,261)       (5,498)       (29,759)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................        (27,298)        -             -          (27,298)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................        (13,847)        -             -          (13,847)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...          4,164         -             -            4,164
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities.............       (213,481)    (25,089)       (5,498)      (244,068)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......             10      (4,312)       (4,171)        (8,473)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -            (156)          (156)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............              5      22,699        12,084         34,788
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $        15   $  18,387     $   7,757    $    26,159
                                                                ==========    ========      ========     ==========
</TABLE>

                                       80

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $   152,485   $(230,625)    $ 333,374    $   255,234
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................            -       328,182        62,349        390,531
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................            -       (74,257)     (105,412)      (179,669)
  Other property additions, net............................            -        (8,335)       (3,532)       (11,867)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities           -       245,590       (46,595)       198,995
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................        355,493         -             -          355,493
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................       (504,493)     (1,192)     (288,234)      (793,919)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities........................            -       (29,006)       (4,996)       (34,002)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................         (6,891)        -             -           (6,891)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...            250         -             -              250
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities.............       (155,641)    (30,198)     (293,230)      (479,069)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents..................         (3,156)    (15,233)       (6,451)       (24,840)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -             407            407
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............          3,161      37,932        18,128         59,221
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $         5   $  22,699     $  12,084    $    34,788
                                                                ==========    ========      ========     ==========
</TABLE>




                                       81

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


Capitalized Costs
<TABLE>

                                                                       December 31,
                                                                -----------------------
                                                                   2001         2000
                                                                ----------   ----------
                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>
   Oil and Gas Properties:
     Proved.................................................    $3,691,783   $3,187,889
     Unproved...............................................       187,785      229,205
                                                                 ---------    ---------

                                                                 3,879,568    3,417,094
     Less accumulated depletion.............................     (1,095,310)   (902,139)
                                                                 ----------   ---------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties.......    $2,784,258   $2,514,955
                                                                 =========    =========
</TABLE>


Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
<TABLE>

                                              Property
                                          Acquisition Costs                                  Total
                                        --------------------    Exploration   Development    Costs
                                         Proved     Unproved        Costs        Costs      Incurred
                                        ---------   --------    -----------   -----------   ---------
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
  United States......................   $ 132,793   $ 19,572    $  129,639    $  172,225    $ 454,229
  Argentina..........................      13,182      2,465        36,237        46,427       98,311
  Canada.............................          29         97        12,707        23,215       36,048
  South Africa.......................         706        125        21,936        13,860       36,627
  Other foreign (a)..................         -        1,835        19,510           -         21,345
                                         --------    -------     ---------     ---------     --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 146,710   $ 24,094    $  220,029    $  255,727    $ 646,560
                                         ========    =======     =========     =========     ========
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
  United States......................   $  26,102   $ 28,199    $   65,023    $   84,798    $ 204,122
  Argentina..........................       1,169        520        35,406        31,335       68,430
  Canada.............................       8,709      2,506         6,744        25,632       43,591
  South Africa.......................         -          -          20,176           -         20,176
  Other foreign (b)..................         -          -           3,421           -          3,421
                                         --------    -------     ---------     ---------     --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  35,980   $ 31,225    $  130,770    $  141,765    $ 339,740
                                         ========    =======     =========     =========     ========
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
  United States......................   $     937   $  3,185    $   42,337    $   59,204    $ 105,663
  Argentina..........................      36,312      2,517        12,597        25,228       76,654
  Canada.............................         174     (7,375)        1,431        17,322       11,552
  South Africa.......................         -          -           2,178           -          2,178
  Other foreign (b)..................         151        -           4,928           -          5,079
                                         --------    -------     ---------     ---------     --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  37,574   $ (1,673)   $   63,471    $  101,754    $ 201,126
                                         ========    =======     =========     =========     ========

- ---------------
<FN>

(a)  Primarily  comprised of costs to drill an exploratory well in Gabon and one
     in Tunisia as well as additional  geological and geophysical  costs in both
     areas.

(b)  Primarily comprised of geological and geophysical costs in Gabon.

</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       82

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


Results of Operations

       Information  about the  Company's  results of  operations for oil and gas
producing  activities  is  presented  in  Note P of the  accompanying  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

       The estimates  of the Company's  proved oil and  gas reserves,  which are
located  principally in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada and South Africa,
are prepared by the Company's  engineers.  Reserves were estimated in accordance
with guidelines  established by the SEC and the Financial  Accounting  Standards
Board,  which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic
and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations except
by  contractual  arrangements.  The reserve  estimates  for 2001,  2000 and 1999
utilize  respective oil prices of $18.88,  $25.71 and $24.33 per Bbl (reflecting
adjustments for oil quality and gathering and transportation costs);  respective
NGL prices of $11.58,  $16.74 and $17.59 per Bbl; and,  respective gas prices of
$2.21,  $7.50  and  $1.83  per Mcf  (reflecting  adjustments  for  Btu  content,
gathering and transportation costs and gas processing and shrinkage).

       Oil  and  gas  reserve  quantity  estimates   are  subject  to   numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.


                                       83

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
<TABLE>

                                               2001                             2000                            1999
                                   -----------------------------   -----------------------------   ------------------------------
                                     Oil                             Oil                             Oil
                                   & NGLs       Gas                & NGLs       Gas                & NGLs       Gas
Total Proved Reserves:             (MBBLS)     (MMCF)     MBOE     (MBBLS)     (MMCF)     MBOE     (MBBLS)     (MMCF)      MBOE
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
<S>                                <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............  266,802   1,354,327   492,523   259,066   1,314,842   478,206   269,638   1,545,644    527,246
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......  (18,022)    (50,385)  (26,419)   10,972      29,055    15,814    70,536      99,604     87,137
  Other..........................   16,843      91,424    32,080     8,323      34,857    14,133   (18,887)     97,229     (2,682)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...   24,943      63,113    35,462     1,237      28,071     5,916       -           -          -
New discoveries and extensions...    4,442      93,220    19,979     4,819      66,486    15,900       149       1,351        374
Production.......................  (15,862)    (77,609)  (28,796)  (16,872)    (83,930)  (30,860)  (20,163)   (106,095)   (37,845)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......      -           -         -        (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)  (42,207)   (322,891)   (96,024)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............  279,146   1,474,090   524,829   266,802   1,354,327   492,523   259,066   1,314,842    478,206

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1...............   35,843     408,282   103,890    29,797     415,620    99,067    24,219     428,334     95,608
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......      -           -         -         -           -         -         -           -          -
  Other..........................     (932)      4,460      (189)    1,411     (15,558)   (1,182)   (2,441)    (12,470)    (4,520)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...      170      31,700     5,453       -           -         -       4,406      17,483      7,320
New discoveries and extensions...    4,354      58,538    14,110     8,066      43,914    15,385     6,182      16,750      8,974
Production.......................   (3,766)    (31,830)   (9,071)   (3,431)    (35,694)   (9,380)   (2,569)    (34,477)    (8,315)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............   35,669     471,150   114,193    35,843     408,282   103,890    29,797     415,620     99,067

CANADA
Balance, January 1...............    4,066     132,919    26,219     3,970     145,251    28,179    12,447     249,230     53,985
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......       (1)      8,701     1,449      (119)    (10,116)   (1,805)      169      (1,113)       (18)
  Other..........................      213       6,366     1,274       548         103       565     4,696     (61,243)    (5,509)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...      -           -         -         140       7,768     1,435       -           -          -
New discoveries and extensions...       81       5,644     1,022       138       6,132     1,160       -           -          -
Production.......................     (671)    (18,426)   (3,742)     (611)    (16,219)   (3,315)   (1,960)    (17,886)    (4,941)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......   (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)      -           -         -     (11,382)    (23,737)   (15,338)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............    2,659     132,061    24,669     4,066     132,919    26,219     3,970     145,251     28,179

SOUTH AFRICA
Balance, January 1...............    5,552         -       5,552       -           -         -         -           -          -
Purchases of minerals-in-place...    2,133         -       2,133       -           -         -         -           -          -
New discoveries and extensions...      -           -         -       5,552         -       5,552       -           -          -
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............    7,685         -       7,685     5,552         -       5,552       -           -          -

TOTAL
Balance, January 1...............  312,263   1,895,528   628,184   292,833   1,875,713   605,452   306,304   2,223,208    676,839
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......  (18,023)    (41,684)  (24,970)   10,853      18,939    14,009    70,705      98,491     87,119
  Other..........................   16,124     102,250    33,165    10,282      19,402    13,516   (16,632)     23,516    (12,711)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...   27,246      94,813    43,048     1,377      35,839     7,351     4,406      17,483      7,320
New discoveries and extensions...    8,877     157,402    35,111    18,575     116,532    37,997     6,331      18,101      9,348
Production.......................  (20,299)   (127,865)  (41,609)  (20,914)   (135,843)  (43,555)  (24,692)   (158,458)   (51,101)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......   (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)     (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)  (53,589)   (346,628)  (111,362)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............  325,159   2,077,301   671,376   312,263   1,895,528   628,184   292,833   1,875,713    605,452
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========
Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States..................  206,922   1,081,592   387,188   209,636   1,118,976   396,133   240,588   1,422,430    477,659
  Argentina......................   22,679     345,281    80,226    22,931     358,124    82,618    22,172     368,940     83,662
  Canada.........................    2,930      80,953    16,422     2,598      61,210    12,800    12,193     210,405     47,261
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
    January 1....................  232,531   1,507,826   483,836   235,165   1,538,310   491,551   274,953   2,001,775    608,582
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========
  United States..................  196,893   1,027,750   368,184   206,922   1,081,592   387,188   209,636   1,118,976    396,133
  Argentina......................   28,248     341,967    85,243    22,679     345,281    80,226    22,931     358,124     82,618
  Canada.........................    2,086      94,607    17,854     2,930      80,953    16,422     2,598      61,210     12,800
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
    December 31..................  227,227   1,464,324   471,281   232,531   1,507,826   483,836   235,165   1,538,310    491,551
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========
</TABLE>


                                       84

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

       The standardized  measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed
by applying year-end prices of oil and gas (with  consideration of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  undiscounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil and gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the difference.  The discounted  future net cash flows estimated in the
table  below do not  include  the  effects of the  Company's  commodity  hedging
contracts.  Utilizing December 31, 2001 commodity prices held constant over each
hedge  contract's  term, the net present value of the Company's  hedge contracts
discounted at 10 percent was an asset equal to approximately $230 million.

       Discounted  future cash  flow  estimates like  those shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.
<TABLE>

                                                                 For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ----------------------------------------
                                                               2001          2000            1999
                                                           -----------   -----------   ------------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
UNITED STATES Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $ 8,222,573   $18,660,169   $  8,143,587
   Future production costs..............................    (3,231,730)   (4,907,134)    (2,823,316)
   Future development costs.............................      (735,984)     (479,290)      (288,801)
   Future income tax expense............................      (598,612)   (3,777,157)      (855,875)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                             3,656,247     9,496,588      4,175,595
10% annual discount factor..............................    (1,691,118)   (4,780,133)    (1,837,826)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $ 1,965,129   $ 4,716,455   $  2,337,769
                                                            ==========    ==========    ===========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $ 1,070,664   $ 1,183,652   $  1,075,904
   Future production costs..............................      (227,435)     (215,853)      (199,513)
   Future development costs.............................      (144,604)     (114,606)       (79,336)
   Future income tax expense............................       (45,140)      (81,705)       (87,274)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                               653,485       771,488        709,781
10% annual discount factor..............................      (262,334)     (264,126)      (240,681)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $   391,151   $   507,362   $    469,100
                                                            ==========    ==========    ===========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $   301,002   $ 1,029,007   $    354,662
   Future production costs..............................       (73,601)     (104,189)       (91,913)
   Future development costs.............................       (27,050)      (35,443)       (54,571)
   Future income tax expense............................       (10,771)     (306,399)        (2,522)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                               189,580       582,976        205,656
10% annual discount factor..............................       (59,995)     (168,441)       (75,266)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $   129,585   $   414,535   $    130,390
                                                            ==========    ==========    ===========
SOUTH AFRICA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $   149,777   $   126,134   $        -
   Future production costs..............................       (73,697)      (65,232)           -
   Future development costs.............................       (54,281)      (47,970)           -
   Future income tax expense............................           -             -              -
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                                21,799        12,932            -
10% annual discount factor..............................        (7,338)       (5,782)           -
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $    14,461   $     7,150   $        -
                                                            ==========    ==========    ===========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $ 9,744,016   $20,998,962   $  9,574,153
   Future production costs..............................    (3,606,463)   (5,292,408)    (3,114,742)
   Future development costs.............................      (961,919)     (677,309)      (422,708)
   Future income tax expense............................      (654,523)   (4,165,261)      (945,671)
                                                            ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                             4,521,111    10,863,984      5,091,032
10% annual discount factor..............................    (2,020,785)   (5,218,482)    (2,153,773)
                                                            -----------   ----------    -----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $ 2,500,326   $ 5,645,502   $  2,937,259
                                                            ==========    ==========    ===========
</TABLE>


                                       85

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999


<TABLE>

                                                               For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Producing Activities                               2001          2000         1999
                                                           -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                                    (in thousands)

<S>                                                        <C>           <C>            <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs...........   $  (631,365)  $  (663,473)   $ (485,116)
   Net changes in prices and production costs...........    (4,528,168)    3,829,794     1,571,584
   Extensions and discoveries...........................       184,454       525,361        60,695
   Development costs incurred during the period.........       239,156       101,350        84,526
   Sales of minerals-in-place...........................       (23,372)      (72,624)     (468,376)
   Purchases of minerals-in-place.......................       201,535       187,097        56,309
   Revisions of estimated future development costs......      (429,365)     (200,734)     (199,569)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates.............        40,771       344,454       387,616
   Accretion of discount................................       701,943       293,726       164,881
   Changes in production rates, timing and other........      (274,689)     (262,784)      115,901
                                                            ----------    ----------     ---------
   Change in present value of future net revenues.......    (4,519,100)    4,082,167     1,288,451
   Net change in present value of future income taxes...     1,373,924    (1,373,924)         -
                                                            ----------    ----------     ---------
                                                            (3,145,176)    2,708,243     1,288,451
   Balance, beginning of year...........................     5,645,502     2,937,259     1,648,808
                                                            ----------    ----------     ---------
   Balance, end of year.................................   $ 2,500,326   $ 5,645,502    $2,937,259
                                                            ==========    ==========     =========
</TABLE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Results
<TABLE>

                                                                          Quarter
                                                       ---------------------------------------------
                                                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                                       ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                            (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
2001
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 257,986   $ 218,611   $ 198,088   $ 172,337
       Total revenues...............................   $ 270,446   $ 231,038   $ 204,471   $ 170,526
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 202,127   $ 200,092   $ 178,864   $ 187,633
       Net income (loss):
          Before extraordinary items................   $  67,919   $  28,338   $  23,228   $ (15,736)
          Extraordinary items, net of tax (a).......         -           -         1,374      (5,127)
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
          Net income (loss).........................   $  67,919   $  28,338   $  24,602   $ (20,863)
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
       Net income (loss) per share:
          Basic:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $     .69   $     .29   $     .24   $    (.16)
            Extraordinary items.....................         -           -           .01        (.05)
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .69   $     .29   $     .25   $    (.21)
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
          Diluted:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $     .68   $     .28   $     .24   $    (.16)
            Extraordinary items.....................         -           -           .01        (.05)
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .68   $     .28   $     .25   $    (.21)
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
2000
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 174,375   $ 197,947   $ 228,587   $ 251,829
       Total revenues...............................   $ 186,502   $ 198,354   $ 257,945   $ 269,896
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 172,032   $ 203,697   $ 192,557   $ 185,912
       Net income (loss):
          Before extraordinary item.................   $  14,770   $  (3,743)  $  69,288   $  84,184
          Extraordinary item, net of tax (a)........         -       (12,318)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
          Net income (loss).........................   $  14,770   $ (16,061)  $  69,288   $  84,184
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
       Net income (loss) per share:
          Basic:
            Before extraordinary item...............   $     .15   $    (.04)  $     .70   $     .86
            Extraordinary item......................         -          (.12)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .15   $    (.16)  $     .70   $     .86
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
          Diluted:
            Before extraordinary item...............   $     .15   $    (.04)  $     .69   $     .85
            Extraordinary item......................         -          (.12)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .15   $    (.16)  $     .69   $     .85
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
- ----------
<FN>

(a)  During July 2001,  the Company  redeemed  the  remaining  $22.5  million of
     outstanding 11-5/8 percent senior  subordinated  discount notes due July 1,
     2006 and $6.8 million of outstanding  10-5/8  percent  senior  subordinated
     notes due July 1, 2006 and recognized an extraordinary  gain, net of taxes,
     of $1.3 million associated with these redemptions. Additionally, during the
     quarter ended December 31, 2001, the Company  redeemed $38.7 million of the
     9-5/8 percent  senior notes and  recognized an  extraordinary  loss, net of
     taxes, of $5.1 million associated with this redemption.  As a result of the
     early extinguishment of a revolving credit facility, the Company recognized
     an extraordinary loss of $12.3 million,  net of taxes, during May 2000 (see
     Note D of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       86

<PAGE>



ITEM 9.        CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
               FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The information  required in  response to this  item is  set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 14, 2002 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       The information  required in  response to  this item  is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 14, 2002 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                 MANAGEMENT

       The information  required in  response to  this item is  set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 14, 2002 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       The information  required in  response to  this item  is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 14, 2002 and is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.       EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

       The following  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  Company  are
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
       2001, 2000 and 1999 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for
       the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 Consolidated Statements
       of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years
       ended December 31,
          2001, 2000 and 1999
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

       All other  statements and  schedules for  which  provision is made in the
applicable accounting  regulations of the SEC have been omitted because they are
not required under related instructions or are inapplicable,  or the information
is shown in the financial statements and related notes.

                                       87

<PAGE>



  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                                 Description

3.1     -   Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3     -   Certificate of Designations of Special Preferred Voting Stock
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-42315,
            filed with the SEC on December 17, 1997).

3.4     -   Terms and Conditions of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by
            reference to Annex F to the Definitive Joint Management Information
            Circular and Proxy Statement of the Company and Chauvco Resources
            Ltd., File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on November 17, 1997).

3.5     -   Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
            Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit
            4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.1     -   Form of Certificate of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of
            the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Form of Certificate of Special Preferred Voting Stock (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3     -   Form of Certificate of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.4     -   Rights Agreement dated July 24, 2001, between the Company and
            Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 001-13245, filed with
            the SEC on July 24, 2001).

9.1     -   Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18, 1997,
            among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada) Ltd. ("Pioneer
            Canada") and Montreal Trust Company of Canada, as Trustee
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to the Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.1    -   Indenture, dated April 12, 1995, between Pioneer USA (successor to
            Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company ("Parker & Parsley"), and The
            Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as Trustee
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No.
            001-10695).

10.2    -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 7, 1997, among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and Pioneer
            USA, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).



                                       88

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.3    -   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation, Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas
            corporation, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking
            association, as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
            the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.4    -   Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas
            corporation, Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation, and The
            Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association, as Trustee,
            with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.5    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer DebtCo, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., as
            successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation, the Company, a
            Delaware corporation, Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation, and The
            Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association, as Trustee,
            with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.6    -   Guarantee, dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to
            the $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 8-7/8% Senior
            Notes due 2005 and $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of
            8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007 issued under the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to
            the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.7    -   Form of 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005, dated as of April 12, 1995, in
            the aggregate principal amount of $150,000,000, together with
            Officers' Certificate dated April 12, 1995, establishing the terms
            of the 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005 pursuant to the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.2 to Parker & Parsley's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the period ended June 30, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.8    -   Form of 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007, dated as of August 22, 1995,
            in the aggregate principal amount of $150,000,000, together with
            Officers' Certificate dated August 22, 1995, establishing the terms
            of the 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007 pursuant to the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 1.2 to Parker & Parsley's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
            August 17, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.9    -   Indenture, dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank
            of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1
            to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File
            No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.10   -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998, among
            the Company, Pioneer USA, as the Subsidiary Guarantor, and The Bank
            of New York, as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 10.9 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
            the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.11   -   Form of 6.50% Senior Notes Due 2008 of the Company (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

10.12   -   Form of 7.20% Senior Notes Due 2028 of the Company (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

                                       89

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.13   -   Guarantee (2008 Notes), dated as of January 13, 1998, entered into
            by Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to the
            Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.14   -   Guarantee (2028 Notes), dated as of January 13, 1998, entered into
            by Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to the
            Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.15H  -   1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
            December 31, 1991).

10.16H  -   1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.28 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated
            June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.17H  -   Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated February 19, 1991
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

10.18H  -   First Amendment to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            dated August 23, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
            Parker & Parsley's Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated
            February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.19H  -   The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
            Registration No. 333-35087).

10.20H  -   First Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of November 23, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.72
            to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.21H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of May 20, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.73 to
            the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.22H  -   Amendment No. 3 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of February 17, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.76
            to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.23H  -   The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.24H  -   Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated
            December 9, 1998 (incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, File No.
            001-13245).

10.25H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated
            December 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74 to the
            Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December
            31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.26H  -   The Company's Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39153).

10.27H  -   Pioneer USA 401(k) Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
            the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
            333-39249).


                                       90

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.28H  -   Pioneer USA Matching Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.29H  -   Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements, included
            as part of the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as
            of November 16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive
            Officers identified on Schedule 1 setting forth additional details
            relating to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan
            (incorporated by reference to Parker & Parsley's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.30H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
            and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of
            the other named executive officers identified on Schedule I for the
            purpose of defining the payment of certain benefits upon the
            termination of the officer's employment under certain circumstances
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.31H  -   Indemnification Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially identical agreements between the Company and each of
            the Company's other directors and named executive officers
            identified on Schedule I (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
            to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.32   -   "B" Contract Production Allocation Agreement, dated July 29, 1991,
            and effective as of January 1, 1991, between Colorado Interstate Gas
            Company and Mesa Operating Limited Partnership (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(r) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1991).

10.33   -   Amendment to "B" Contract Production Allocation Agreement effective
            as of January 1, 1993, between Colorado Interstate Gas Company and
            Mesa Operating Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.24 to Mesa's Registration Statement on Form S-1,
            Registration No. 33-51909).

10.34   -   Voting and Shareholders Agreement dated as of February 8, 2000
            between Prize Energy Corp. and its stockholders (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's statement on Schedule 13D
            relating to the common stock of Prize Energy Corp., filed with the
            SEC on February 18, 2000, File No. 005-54797).

10.35    -  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2000, among the
            Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary guarantor and the Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the Indenture, dated January
            13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.36    -  Form of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010, dated as of April 11,
            2000, in the aggregate principal amount of $425,000,000, together
            with Trustee's Certificate of Authentication dated April 11, 2000,
            establishing the terms of the 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010
            pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture identified above as
            Exhibit 10.35 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May
            11, 2000).

10.37    -  Guarantee, dated as of April 11, 2000, by Pioneer USA as the
            subsidiary guarantor relating to the $425,000,000 aggregate
            principal amount of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010 issued
            under the Second Supplemental Indenture identified above as Exhibit
            10.35 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).



                                       91

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.38    -  $575,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2000, among the
            Company, as the borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as the
            Administrative Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, as the
            Documentation Agent, the Chase Manhattan Bank, as the Syndicated
            Agent and certain Lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
            to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC
            on August 9, 2000).

10.39   -   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 28, 2000 by and
            among Pioneer Natural Resources Company, Pioneer Natural Resources
            USA, Inc., Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-A,
            Ltd., Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-B Ltd., P&P
            Employees Producing Properties 88-A, L.P., P&P Employees 89-A Conv.,
            L.P., P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P., P&P Employees Private 89,
            L.P., P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P., P&P Employees 90-B Conv.,
            L.P., P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P., P&P Employees Private 90,
            L.P., P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P., P&P
            Employees 91-A Conv., L.P. and P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P.
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.53 to the Company's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2000, File No.
            1-13245).

10.40   -   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 20, 2001, among
            the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. and the Parker &
            Parsley partnerships named therein (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
            Registration No. 333-59094, filed with the SEC on April 17, 2001).

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       During the three months ended December 31, 2001, the Company did not file
any current reports on Form 8-K.

(c)    Exhibits

        The exhibits to this Report required to be  filed pursuant to Item 14(c)
are listed under "Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial  Statement Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K - Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits - Exhibits" above and
in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedules

        No financial statement  schedules are  required to  be filed  as part of
this Report or they are inapplicable.

                                       92

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant  to the  requirements of  Section 13 or 15(d)  of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                               PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date:  March 6, 2002           By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                   ------------------------------------------
                                   Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board,
                                     Chief Executive Officer, President and
                                     Assistant Secretary

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                         Title                       Date

  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield       Chairman of the Board, President,   March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------     Chief Executive Officer and
Scott D. Sheffield               Assistant Secretary
                                 (principal executive officer)

  /s/ Timothy L. Dove          Executive Vice President, Chief     March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------     Financial Officer and Assistant
Timothy L. Dove                  Secretary


  /s/ Richard P. Dealy         Vice President and Chief            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------     Accounting Officer
Richard P. Dealy


  /s/ James R. Baroffio        Director                            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner      Director                            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton        Director                            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones           Director                            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.   Director                            March 6, 2002
- ----------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.



                                       93

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Exhibit Index                                                             Page


3.1     -   Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
            Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27,
            1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3     -   Certificate of Designations of Special Preferred Voting Stock
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-42315,
            filed with the SEC on December 17, 1997).

3.4     -   Terms and Conditions of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by
            reference to Annex F to the Definitive Joint Management
            Information Circular and Proxy Statement of the Company and
            Chauvco Resources Ltd., File No. 001-13245, filed with the
            SEC on November 17, 1997).

3.5     -   Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
            Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to
            Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
            8-A, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.1     -   Form of Certificate of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share,
            of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
            the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Form of Certificate of Special Preferred Voting Stock
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with
            the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3     -   Form of Certificate of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            2, 1998).

4.4     -   Rights Agreement dated July 24, 2001, between the Company and
            Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

9.1     -   Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18,
            1997, among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada)
            Ltd. ("Pioneer Canada") and Montreal Trust Company of Canada,
            as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.4 to the
            Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.1    -   Indenture, dated April 12, 1995, between Pioneer USA (successor
            to Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company ("Parker & Parsley"),
            and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as Trustee
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No.
            001-10695).

10.2    -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 7, 1997, among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
            Pioneer USA, with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).


                                       94

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Exhibit Index                                                             Page


10.3    -   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation, Pioneer NewSub1,
            Inc., a Texas corporation, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a
            New York banking association, as Trustee, with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Current Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2,
            1998).

10.4    -   Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a
            Texas corporation, Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation,
            and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association,
            as Trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the
            Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer DebtCo, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1,
            Inc., as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation, the
            Company, a Delaware corporation, Pioneer USA, a Delaware
            corporation, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking
            association, as Trustee, with respect to the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,
            File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.6    -   Guarantee, dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA
            relating to the $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of
            8-7/8% Senior Notes due 2005 and $150,000,000 in aggregate
            principal amount of 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007 issued under
            the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Current Report
            on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.7    -   Form of 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005, dated as of April 12,
            1995, in the aggregate principal amount of $150,000,000,
            together with Officers' Certificate dated April 12, 1995,
            establishing the terms of the 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005
            pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Parker & Parsley's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,
            1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.8    -   Form of 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007, dated as of August 22,
            1995, in the aggregate principal amount of $150,000,000,
            together with Officers' Certificate dated August 22, 1995,
            establishing the terms of the 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007
            pursuant to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to Parker & Parsley's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 17, 1995, File No.
            001-10695).

10.9    -   Indenture, dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and
            The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC
            on January 14, 1998).

10.10   -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998,
            among the Company, Pioneer USA, as the Subsidiary Guarantor,
            and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.9 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the
            SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.11   -   Form of 6.50% Senior Notes Due 2008 of the Company
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's
            and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

                                       95

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Exhibit Index                                                            Page


10.12   -   Form of 7.20% Senior Notes Due 2028 of the Company
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's
            and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.13   -   Guarantee (2008 Notes), dated as of January 13, 1998, entered
            into by Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            99.5 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            14, 1998).

10.14   -   Guarantee (2028 Notes), dated as of January 13, 1998, entered
            into by Pioneer USA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            99.6 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14,
            1998).

10.15H  -   1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
            period ended December 31, 1991).

10.16H  -   1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.28 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
            S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.17H  -   Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated February 19,
            1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker &
            Parsley's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
            33-38971).

10.18H  -   First Amendment to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive
            Plan, dated August 23, 1991 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.2 to Parker & Parsley's Registration Statement on
            Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.19H  -   The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35087).

10.20H  -   First Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective as of November 23, 1998 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.72 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.21H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective as of May 20, 1999 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.73 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.22H  -   Amendment No. 3 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective as of February 17, 2000 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.76 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.23H  -   The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.24H  -   Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
            dated December 9, 1998 (incorporated by reference to the
            Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1998, File No. 001-13245).

10.25H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
            dated December 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.74 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

                                       96

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Exhibit Index                                                            Page


10.26H  -   The Company's Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
            333-39153).

10.27H  -   Pioneer USA 401(k) Plan (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39249).

10.28H  -   Pioneer USA Matching Plan (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.29H  -   Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,
            included as part of the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive
            Plan, dated as of November 16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley
            and Named Executive Officers identified on Schedule 1 setting
            forth additional details relating to the Parker & Parsley
            Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Parker
            & Parsley's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.30H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule
            identifying substantially identical agreements between the
            Company and each of the other named executive officers
            identified on Schedule I for the purpose of defining the
            payment of certain benefits upon the termination of the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.31H  -   Indemnification Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997,
            between the Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a
            schedule identifying substantially identical agreements
            between the Company and each of the Company's other
            directors and named executive officers identified on
            Schedule I (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
            ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.32   -   "B" Contract Production Allocation Agreement, dated July 29,
            1991, and effective as of January 1, 1991, between Colorado
            Interstate Gas Company and Mesa Operating Limited Partnership
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) to Mesa's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1991).

10.33   -   Amendment to "B" Contract Production Allocation Agreement
            effective as of January 1, 1993, between Colorado Interstate
            Gas Company and Mesa Operating Limited Partnership
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Mesa's
            Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-51909).

10.34   -   Voting and Shareholders Agreement dated as of February 8, 2000
            between Prize Energy Corp. and its stockholders (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's statement on
            Schedule 13D relating to the common stock of Prize Energy Corp.,
            filed with the SEC on February 18, 2000, File No. 005-54797).

10.35    -  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2000,
            among the Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary guarantor and
            the Bank of New York, as trustee, with respect to the Indenture,
            dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with
            the SEC on May 11, 2000).


                                       97

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Exhibit Index                                                           Page

10.36    -  Form of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010, dated as of
            April 11, 2000, in the aggregate principal amount of
            $425,000,000, together with Trustee's Certificate of
            Authentication dated April 11, 2000, establishing the terms
            of the 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010 pursuant to
            the Second Supplemental Indenture identified above as Exhibit
            10.35 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC
            on May 11, 2000).

10.37    -  Guarantee, dated as of April 11, 2000, by Pioneer USA as the
            subsidiary guarantor relating to the $425,000,000 aggregate
            principal amount of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010
            issued under the Second Supplemental Indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 10.35 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed
            with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.38    -  $575,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of May 31, 2000, among
            the Company, as the borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as the
            Administrative Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, as the
            Documentation Agent, the Chase Manhattan Bank, as the
            Syndicated Agent and certain Lenders (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report
            on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on August 9, 2000).

10.39   -   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 28, 2000
            by and among Pioneer Natural Resources Company, Pioneer Natural
            Resources USA, Inc., Parker & Parsley Employees Producing
            Properties 87-A, Ltd., Parker & Parsley Employees Producing
            Properties 87-B Ltd., P&P Employees Producing Properties 88-A,
            L.P., P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P., P&P Employees 89-B Conv.,
            L.P., P&P Employees Private 89, L.P., P&P Employees 90-A Conv.,
            L.P., P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P., P&P Employees 90-C Conv.,
            L.P., P&P Employees Private 90, L.P., P&P Employees 90 Spraberry
            Private Development, L.P., P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P. and
            P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P. (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.53 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).

10.40   -   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 20, 2001,
            among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. and the
            Parker & Parsley partnerships named therein (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Registration
            Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-59094, filed with
            the SEC on April 17, 2001).

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.                                  99

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.                                   100

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).


                                       98

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>p10k21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER EXH 21.1 TO 2001 10-K
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.1


                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization        Subsidiaries
- ---------------------     ------------
Delaware                  Bridge Oil (U.S.A.) Inc.
Delaware                  DMLP Co.
Netherlands               D, P & D Investments B.V.
Delaware                  Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                     Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Australia                 Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Holdings Pty
                            Limited
Australia                 Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Pty Limited
Delaware                  Pioneer International Resources Company
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd.
Argentina                 Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.
Canada                    Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Resources  Scholarship Foundation
South Africa              Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty) Limited
Argentina                 Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd.
Delaware                  Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Bahamas                   Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Delaware                  Pioneer Resources Mediterranean, Inc.
Bahamas                   Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Texas                     Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                  Westpan NGL Co.


                          Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                          -----------------------------------------------------
                          is the managing general partner

Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.

                          Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                          -----------------------------------------------------
                          is the managing general partner

Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private Development
                            Conv., L.P.
Texas                     Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.







                                       99


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>p10k23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER EXH 23.1 TO 2001 10-K
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 23.1



                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No.  333-39153,  No.  333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No.
333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No.  333-42315,  No. 333-44439 and
No.  333-39381) on Form S-3 of Pioneer Natural Resources Company and the related
Prospectuses  of  our  report  dated  January  25,  2002,  with  respect  to the
consolidated  financial statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.



                                                Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
March 6, 2002






















                                      100



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
