-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QVdqOjxomuKVXMxj84724AaR0Z8O9iqEC6KoZYgXTrKe0JCfCSJ1dZK+4ByZloCh
 y/C9h8pkf/P3WezNlFjlvw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-03-000009.txt : 20030221
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-03-000009.hdr.sgml : 20030221
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20030220180831
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-03-000009
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20021231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20030221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		03574914

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>pnr10k02.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 2002 FORM 10-K
<TEXT>
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Delaware                                     75-2702753
      (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 1400, Irving, Texas                75039
    (Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                               on which registered
        -------------------                             -----------------------

        Common Stock.................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
YES    X        NO ___
     ----

Aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant computed by reference  to
the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the
average bid and  asked price of such common equity,  as of
the last  business day  of the  Registrant's most recently
completed second fiscal quarter .............................    $3,011,384,455

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
 February 17, 2003 ..........................................       117,299,334

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)  Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 15, 2003
     - Referenced in Part III of this report.




<PAGE>




                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                           Page

Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein.............    4

                                     PART I

Item 1.     Business.....................................................    5

            General......................................................    5
            Available Information........................................    5
            Mission and Strategies.......................................    5
            Business Activities..........................................    6
            Operations by Geographic Area................................    8
            Marketing of Production......................................    9
            Competition, Markets and Regulations.........................    9
            Risks Associated with Business Activities....................   11

Item 2.     Properties...................................................   13

            Proved Reserves..............................................   14
            Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement.........................   14
            Description of Properties....................................   15
            Selected Oil and Gas Information.............................   19

Item 3.     Legal Proceedings............................................   22

Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..........   22

                                     PART II

Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
             Stockholder Matters.........................................   22

Item 6.     Selected Financial Data......................................   23

Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
             Condition and Results of Operations.........................   24

            2002 Financial and Operating Performance.....................   24
            2003 Outlook.................................................   25
            Critical Accounting Estimates................................   26
            New Accounting Pronouncements................................   27
            Results of Operations........................................   28
            Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity.........   33


                                        2

<PAGE>



                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                           Page

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk...   36

            Quantitative Disclosures.....................................   36
            Qualitative Disclosures......................................   40

Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..................   41

            Index to Consolidated Financial Statements...................   41
            Independent Auditors' Report.................................   42
            Consolidated Financial Statements............................   43
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................   48
            Unaudited Supplementary Information..........................   81

Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
             and Financial Disclosure....................................   87

                                PART III

Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...........   87

Item 11.    Executive Compensation.......................................   87

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
             and Management..............................................   87

Item 13.    Certain Relations and Related Transactions...................   87

Item 14.    Controls and Procedures......................................   87

                                 PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
             on Form 8-K.................................................   88

            Signatures...................................................   94

            Certifications...............................................   95

            Exhibit Index................................................   97



                                        3

<PAGE>



       Parts I and II of this annual report on Form 10-K  (the "Report") contain
forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking statements. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation"
and  "Item 1.  Business  - Risks  Associated  with  Business  Activities"  for a
description  of various  factors  that could  materially  affect the  ability of
Pioneer Natural Resources  Company to achieve the anticipated  results described
in the forward looking statements.

Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

       Within this Report,  the following oil and gas terms and conventions have
specific  meanings:  "Bbl" means a standard  barrel  containing 42 United States
gallons;  "Bcf"  means  one  billion  cubic  feet;  "BOE"  means a barrel of oil
equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a
comparable  oil  equivalent  basis;  "Btu" means  British  thermal unit and is a
measure of the amount of energy  required to raise the  temperature of one pound
of water one degree  Fahrenheit;  "LIBOR" means London  Interbank  Offered Rate,
which is a market rate of  interest;  "MMBtu"  means one million  Btu's;  "MBbl"
means one  thousand  Bbls;  "MBOE"  means one thousand  BOE;  "MMBOE"  means one
million BOE; "Mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas
volume;  "MMcf" means one million  cubic feet;  "NGL" means  natural gas liquid;
"NYMEX"  means The New York  Mercantile  Exchange;  "proved  reserves"  mean the
estimated  quantities  of crude oil,  natural gas and natural gas liquids  which
geological and engineering  data  demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be
recoverable in future years from known  reservoirs  under existing  economic and
operating  conditions,  i.e.,  prices and costs as of the date the  estimate  is
made.  Prices include  consideration of changes in existing prices provided only
by  contractual   arrangements,   but  not  on  escalations  based  upon  future
conditions.
       (i)  Reservoirs  are  considered  proved  if  economic  producibility  is
supported by either actual production or conclusive  formation test. The area of
a reservoir  considered proved includes (A) that portion  delineated by drilling
and  defined  by  gas-oil  and/or  oil-water  contacts,  if  any;  and  (B)  the
immediately  adjoining  portions  not yet drilled,  but which can be  reasonably
judged as  economically  productive  on the basis of  available  geological  and
engineering  data. In the absence of information on fluid  contacts,  the lowest
known structural  occurrence of hydrocarbons  controls the lower proved limit of
the reservoir.
       (ii)  Reserves which can be  produced economically through application of
improved  recovery  techniques  (such as fluid  injection)  are  included in the
"proved"  classification  when  successful  testing by a pilot  project,  or the
operation of an installed  program in the  reservoir,  provides  support for the
engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
       (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:  (A) oil
that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified  separately as
"indicated  additional  reserves";  (B) crude oil,  natural gas, and natural gas
liquids,  the  recovery  of which is  subject  to  reasonable  doubt  because of
uncertainty as to geology, reservoir  characteristics,  or economic factors; (C)
crude oil,  natural gas,  and natural gas  liquids,  that may occur in undrilled
prospects;  and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be
recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.

       "Standardized  Measure"  means  the  after-tax present value of estimated
future net revenues of proved reserves,  determined in accordance with the rules
and  regulations of the United States  Securities and Exchange  Commission  (the
"SEC"),  using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent
discount rate; "acquisition and finding cost per BOE" means total costs incurred
divided  by the  summation  of proved  reserves  attributable  to  revisions  of
previous  estimates,  purchases  of  minerals in place and new  discoveries  and
extensions;   and  "reserve  replacement   percentage"  means,  expressed  as  a
percentage,   the  summation  of  annual  proved  reserves,   on  a  BOE  basis,
attributable to revisions of previous estimates,  purchases of minerals in place
and new discoveries and extensions divided by annual production of oil, NGLs and
gas, on a BOE basis.

       Gas equivalents  are determined under the  relative energy content method
by using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL.

       With respect  to information  on the working interest in wells,  drilling
locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined
by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by Pioneer Natural
Resources Company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres.
Unless otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling  locations and acreage statistics
quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or acres;  and, all
currency amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars.

                                        4

<PAGE>



                                     PART I


ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

       Pioneer Natural Resources Company  ("Pioneer",  or  the  "Company")  is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Pioneer is an oil and gas  exploration  and production  company
with ownership interests in oil and gas properties located in the United States,
Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

       The Company's  executive offices  are located at  5205 N. O'Connor Blvd.,
Suite  1400,  Irving,  Texas  75039.  The  Company's  telephone  number is (972)
444-9001.  The Company maintains other offices in Midland,  Texas; Buenos Aires,
Argentina;  Calgary,  Canada;  Capetown,  South Africa; and Tunis,  Tunisia.  At
December 31, 2002, the Company had 979  employees,  491 of whom were employed in
field and plant operations.

Available Information

       Pioneer files annual,  quarterly,  and current reports, proxy statements,
and other documents with the SEC under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934. The
public may read and copy any  materials  that Pioneer  files with the SEC at the
SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain  information on the operation of the Public  Reference Room by
calling the SEC at  1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website
that contains reports, proxy and information  statements,  and other information
regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The
public  can  obtain  any   documents   that  Pioneer   files  with  the  SEC  at
http://www.sec.gov.

       The Company  also  makes  available  free of  charge  on or  through  its
Internet  website  (http://www.pioneernrc.com)  its Annual  Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable,
amendments to those reports filed or furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably  practicable  after it  electronically  files
such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

       The Company's mission is to provide shareholders with superior investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset value. The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are predicated
on  maintaining  financial   flexibility  and  capital  allocation   discipline.
Historically,  these  strategies have been anchored by the Company's  long-lived
Spraberry  oil field and Hugoton and West  Panhandle  gas fields'  reserves  and
production.  Underlying  these  fields  are  approximately  65  percent  of  the
Company's proved oil and gas reserves which have a remaining  productive life in
excess of 40 years. The stable base of oil and gas production from these fields,
combined  with:  (i)  production  from the Company's  Canyon Express gas project
which began  production in September 2002; (ii) the initial  production from the
Company's Falcon gas discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Sable oil
discovery in South Africa  expected during the second quarter of 2003; and (iii)
initial  production  from  the  Company's  Devils  Tower  oil  discovery  in the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  expected  during  the  first  quarter  of 2004,  will
generate  the  operating  cash flows that will provide  Pioneer  with  continued
financial flexibility.  These exploration successes represent the results of the
Company's ability to selectively reinvest capital from the long-lived Spraberry,
Hugoton and West Panhandle fields to areas offering superior investment returns.
Similarly, the Company will continue to: (a) selectively explore for and develop
proved  reserve  discoveries  in areas that offer  superior  reserve  growth and
profitability potential; (b) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to
maximize the Company's  exploration and development  successes;  and (c) enhance
liquidity,  allowing  the  Company  to take  advantage  of  future  exploration,
development  and  acquisition   opportunities.   The  Company  is  committed  to
continuing to enhance shareholder  investment returns through adherence to these
strategies.


                                        5

<PAGE>



Business Activities

       The Company  is an  independent  oil and  gas exploration and development
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor qualitative  differentials,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from
units offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive  advantage is
gained in the oil and gas exploration and development  industry through superior
capital  investment  decisions,  technological  innovation  and  price  and cost
management.

      Petroleum industry.  The  petroleum  industry  has  been  characterized by
fluctuating  oil, NGL and gas commodity  prices and relatively  stable  supplier
costs during the three years ended  December 31, 2002.  During and just prior to
2000, the  Organization of Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  ("OPEC") and certain
other oil exporting  nations reduced their oil export volumes.  Those reductions
in oil export volumes had a positive impact on world oil prices,  as did overall
gas supply and demand  fundamentals  on North American gas prices.  During 2001,
world oil and  North  American  gas  supply  and  demand  fundamentals  shifted,
primarily  as a result  of an  economic  recession  curtailing  demand,  causing
reductions in world oil and North  American gas prices.  During 2002,  world oil
prices increased in response to political  unrest and supply  disruptions in the
Middle East and Venezuela.  During the third and fourth quarters of 2002,  North
American gas prices improved as market fundamentals strengthened.  The Company's
outlook for 2003 commodity  prices is uncertain.  Significant  factors that will
impact 2003 commodity  prices include the final  resolution of issues  currently
impacting Iraq and Venezuela;  the extent to which members of OPEC and other oil
exporting  nations  are able to manage oil supply  through  export  quotas;  and
overall  North  American  gas supply and demand  fundamentals.  To mitigate  the
impact of volatile  commodity  prices on the Company's net asset value,  Pioneer
periodically  enters  into  commodity  hedge  contracts.  See Note J of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues
during  2002,  2001  and 2000  from the  Company's  hedging  activities  and the
Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2002.

      The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is  anchored by the Spraberry oil
field located in West Texas,  the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas
and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas  Panhandle.  Complementing
these areas,  the Company has exploration and development  opportunities  and/or
oil and gas  production  activities in Alaska,  the United States Gulf of Mexico
and onshore Gulf Coast areas, and internationally in Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,
South Africa and Tunisia. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources
and  opportunities  that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas, and that are
also well balanced between long-lived, dependable production and exploration and
development  opportunities.  Additionally,  the Company has a team of  dedicated
employees that  represent the  professional  disciplines  and sciences that will
allow  Pioneer to  maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net asset  value
inherent in its physical assets.

      The Company provides administrative,  financial and  management support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil,  NGL  and gas  reserves.  Production  operations  are  principally  located
domestically  in  Texas,   Kansas,   Louisiana  and  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  and
internationally in Argentina and Canada.

      Production. The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average
daily production of oil, NGL and gas through  development  drilling,  production
enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing
the controllable costs associated with the production  activities.  During 2002,
the Company's average daily oil, NGL and gas production  decreased primarily due
to normal production  declines,  reduced Argentine demand for gas, the Company's
curtailment of Argentine  drilling  activities during the first half of 2002 and
the December  2001 sale of the Company's  Rycroft/Spirit  River field in Canada.
During 2001 and 2000,  the Company's  average daily oil, NGL and gas  production
decreased  primarily as a result of oil and gas property  divestitures that were
supportive of the Company's  debt  reduction  goal.  Production,  price and cost
information with respect to the Company's  properties for each of 2002, 2001 and
2000 is set forth under "Item 2. Properties - Selected Oil and Gas Information -
Production, Price and Cost Data".

       Drilling  activities.  The Company  seeks to  increase  its  oil  and gas
reserves,  production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling
and  by  conducting  other  production  enhancement  activities,  such  as  well
recompletions.  During the five years  ended  December  31,  2002,  the  Company
drilled 1,810 gross (1,279.7 net) wells, 88.5 percent of which were successfully
completed  as productive wells,  at a total drilling cost  (net to the Company's


                                        6

<PAGE>



interest) of $1.6  billion.  During 2002,  the Company  drilled 229 gross (153.2
net) wells.  Drilling and facility costs (net to the Company's interest) totaled
$439.3  million  during  2002,  79  percent  of which was  spent on  development
activities  including  $221.6 million  towards  completing  the Canyon  Express,
Falcon and Devils Tower  deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects and the Sable project
offshore South Africa. The Company's current 2003 capital  expenditure budget is
expected to range from $450 million to $550  million.  Excluding the 2002 Falcon
field  and  West  Panhandle  field  acquisitions,  the  Company's  2003  capital
expenditure  budget  is  comparable  to  2002  costs  incurred  for  oil and gas
producing  activities.  Development  expenditures to complete the Falcon, Devils
Tower and Sable projects will decline to approximately  $35 million during 2003,
while aggressive  development  drilling programs in the Company's core Spraberry
oil field,  Hugoton and West Panhandle gas fields, the United States Gulf Coast,
Argentina  and  Canada  will  resume  with  approximately  twice  as many  wells
anticipated  in 2003 versus 2002.  The Company has  allocated  the budgeted 2003
capital expenditures as follows: 65 percent to development drilling and facility
activities and 35 percent to exploration activities.

      The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow growth. The
Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2002 include  proved  undeveloped
reserves and proved  developed  reserves  that are behind pipe of 154.2  million
Bbls of oil and NGLs and 647.7 Bcf of gas.  Development  of those  reserves will
require  future  capital  expenditures.  The timing of the  development of these
reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's
expected operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company
believes that its current portfolio of undeveloped prospects provides attractive
development  and exploration  opportunities  for at least the next three to five
years.

      Exploratory activities.  Since  1998,  the Company has devoted significant
efforts and  resources  on hiring and  developing a highly  skilled  exploration
staff  as  well  as  acquiring   and   drilling  a  portfolio   of   exploration
opportunities.   The  Company's   commitment  to  exploration  has  resulted  in
significant  discoveries  during  this time  period,  such as the 1998 Sable oil
field  discovery in South Africa;  the 1999 Aconcagua,  2000 Devils Tower,  2001
Falcon and 2003 Harrier  discoveries in the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico;  the 2001
Olowi permit discovery located in the Southern Gabon basin; and the 2002 Borj El
Khadra permit  discovery in the Ghadames  basin onshore  Southern  Tunisia.  The
Company  currently  anticipates  that  its  2003  exploration  efforts  will  be
approximately  35 percent of total 2003  expenditures  and will be  concentrated
domestically  in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico,  and  internationally  in Gabon,
South Africa and Tunisia.  Exploratory  drilling  involves  greater risks of dry
holes or failure to find commercial  quantities of hydrocarbons than development
drilling  or  enhanced  recovery  activities.  See  "Item  1.  Business  - Risks
Associated with Business Activities - Drilling activities" below.

      Asset divestitures.  The Company regularly  reviews its asset base for the
purpose of identifying  non-core assets, the disposition of which would increase
capital resources  available for other activities and create  organizational and
operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets
solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such  dispositions  can have the result
of furthering the Company's  objective of financial  flexibility through reduced
debt levels.

      During 2002, 2001 and 2000,  the Company's  divestitures  consisted of the
early  termination  of derivative  hedge  contracts and the sales of oil and gas
properties and other assets for net proceeds of $118.9  million,  $113.5 million
and $102.7  million,  respectively,  which  resulted in 2002,  2001 and 2000 net
divestiture gains of $4.4 million, $7.7 million and $34.2 million, respectively.
The Company's 2002 net proceeds from asset  divestitures  were primarily derived
from the early termination of interest rate and commodity hedges and the sale of
certain gas  properties  in  Oklahoma.  The  Company's  2001  divestitures  were
primarily  derived from the early  termination  of interest  rate and  commodity
hedges, the sale of the Company's remaining  investment in the common stock of a
non-affiliated  entity and the sale of certain  oil  properties  in Canada.  The
assets that the Company  divested  during 2000 were  primarily  comprised  of an
investment in a non-affiliated  entity and  non-strategic  United States oil and
gas  properties  located in  Oklahoma,  New Mexico and  Louisiana.  The net cash
proceeds from the 2002, 2001 and 2000 asset  dispositions were primarily used to
fund additions to oil and gas properties or to reduce the Company's  outstanding
indebtedness.  See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in  "Item  8.  Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary   Data"  for  specific
information regarding the Company's asset divestitures.

      The Company  anticipates  that it  will  continue  to  sell  non-strategic
properties  or other  assets  from time to time to  increase  capital  resources
available  for  other  activities,   to  achieve  operating  and  administrative
efficiencies and to improve profitability.



                                        7

<PAGE>



      Acquisition activities.  The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide  exploration/exploitation   opportunities.   During  2002,  the  Company
expended $195.5 million of acquisition capital to purchase additional  interests
in, and other assets  associated with, its Falcon field  development  project in
the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and its West  Panhandle  gas field and  unproved
property  interests in the Gulf of Mexico,  the Alaskan North Slope, the Borj El
Khadra  permit in Tunisia and other areas.  The Company  purchased,  through two
transactions,  an  additional  30 percent  working  interest in the Falcon field
development  and a 25 percent  working  interest  in  associated  acreage in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico for a combined  purchase  price of $61.1 million.  As a
result of these transactions, the Company owns a 75 percent working interest and
operates the Falcon field development and related exploration blocks.

      The Company also completed the purchase of the remaining 23 percent of the
rights that the Company did not already own in its core area West  Panhandle gas
field,  100 percent of the West Panhandle  reserves  attributable to field fuel,
100 percent of the related West Panhandle field gathering  system and ten blocks
surrounding  the  Company's  deepwater  Gulf  of  Mexico  Falcon  discovery.  In
connection  with these  transactions,  the  Company  recorded  a $100.4  million
increase to proved oil and gas properties,  a $3.8 million  increase to unproved
oil and gas  properties  and $1.9  million of assets held for resale;  retired a
capital cost obligation for $60.8 million; settled a $20.9 million gas balancing
receivable;  assumed  trade  and  environmental  obligations  amounting  to $5.8
million in the aggregate; and paid $140.2 million of cash.

      During 2001,  the Company  expended  $170.8 million  of capital to acquire
proved and unproved oil and gas  properties.  Excluding  cash and other  working
capital acquired, the Company paid $92.9 million, through the issuance of common
stock,  to complete  the  agreement  and plan of merger among  Pioneer,  Pioneer
Natural   Resources   USA,   Inc.  and  42  affiliated   limited   partnerships.
Additionally,  $77.9 million was spent during 2001 to acquire additional working
interests  in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  Aconcagua  discovery,  the related
Canyon Express gathering system and the Devils Tower project;  21 deepwater Gulf
of Mexico blocks; 250,000 acres in the Anticlinal  Campamento,  Dos Hermanas and
La Calera areas of the Neuquen Basin in Argentina;  and a 30 percent interest in
the Anaguid permit in the Ghadames basin onshore Southern Tunisia.

      During 2000,  the  Company  expended  $67.2  million to acquire proved and
unproved oil and gas properties.  Strategic  acquisitions  of proved  properties
during 2000 included  incremental  working  interests in the  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico discovery at Devils Tower and the Company's Canadian Chinchaga gas field.
The Company  also  acquired an interest in the Camden  Hills  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico discovery and the related Canyon Express gathering system during 2000.

      See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information
regarding the Company's acquisitions.

      The Company  periodically evaluates  and pursues acquisition opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;  entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and,
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal
financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.

Operations by Geographic Area

      The Company operates in one industry segment.  During 2002, 2001 and 2000,
the Company had oil and gas producing activities in the United States, Argentina
and Canada,  and had  exploration  and/or  development  activities in the United
States Gulf Coast area,  the Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,  South
Africa and Tunisia.  See Note P of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for geographic
operating  segment  information,  including  results of  operations  and segment
assets.


                                        8

<PAGE>



Marketing of Production

      General.  Production  from  the  Company's  properties is  marketed  using
methods that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL
and gas production are negotiated  based on factors  normally  considered in the
industry,  such as the spot  price for gas or the  posted  price for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.

      Significant purchasers.  During 2002,  the Company's primary purchasers of
oil were ExxonMobil Corporation ("ExxonMobil") and Plains Marketing LP
("Plains"), the Company's primary purchaser of NGLs was Williams Energy Services
("Williams") and the Company's primary  purchaser of gas was Anadarko  Petroleum
Corporation  ("Anadarko").  Approximately  seven percent of the  Company's  2002
combined  oil,  NGL and gas  revenues  were  attributable  to  sales  to each of
ExxonMobil,  Plains,  Williams and Anadarko.  The Company is of the opinion that
the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to
sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

      Hedging  activities.   The  Company  periodically  enters  into  commodity
derivative  contracts  (swaps and  collars) in order to (i) reduce the effect of
the  volatility of price  changes on the  commodities  the Company  produces and
sells, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans
and (iii) lock in prices to protect  the  economics  related to certain  capital
projects.  See  "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's  hedging
activities,  "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market
Risk" and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  concerning the
impact to oil and gas  revenues  during 2002,  2001 and 2000 from the  Company's
commodity hedging activities and the Company's open commodity hedge positions at
December 31, 2002.

Competition, Markets and Regulation

      Competition.  The oil  and gas  industry is  highly  competitive.  A large
number  of  companies  and  individuals   engage  in  the  exploration  for  and
development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions
of oil and gas  properties  have  been an  important  element  of the  Company's
growth.  The Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that
complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and
potentially  provide  superior return on investment.  The principal  competitive
factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties  include the staff and data
necessary  to  identify,  investigate  and  purchase  such  properties  and  the
financial resources necessary to acquire and develop them. Many of the Company's
competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other  resources
greater than those of the Company.

      Markets.  The  Company's  ability  to  produce  and  market  oil  and  gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company  cannot  predict  the  occurrence  of events that may affect oil and gas
prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices  will be  affected,  the prices
for any oil or gas that the Company produces will generally  approximate current
market prices in the geographic region.

      Governmental  regulation.  Enterprises  that  sell  securities  in  public
markets  are subject to  regulatory  oversight  by  agencies  such as the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission.  This regulatory oversight imposes on
the Company the  responsibility  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure
controls and procedures that will ensure that material  information  relating to
the Company and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  is made known to the  Company's
management  and that the financial  statements and other  financial  information
included in this Report do not contain any untrue  statement of a material fact,
or omit to state a material fact,  necessary to make the statements made in this
Report not misleading.

      Oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  are also subject to
various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign  agencies.
Additionally,  the Company's  operations are subject to state  conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign
governments  generally  impose a  production  or  severance  tax with respect to



                                        9

<PAGE>


production and sale of oil and gas within their  respective  jurisdictions.  The
regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's  cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

      Additional  proposals and  proceedings that  might affect  the oil and gas
industry  are  considered  from time to time by  Congress,  the  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission,   state  regulatory  bodies,  the  courts  and  foreign
governments.  The Company  cannot  predict when or if any such  proposals  might
become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

      Environmental and health controls. The Company's operations are subject to
numerous  federal,  state,  local and foreign laws and  regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict  air  emissions or other  discharges  resulting  from the  operation of
natural gas processing  plants,  pipeline  systems and other facilities that the
Company owns.  Although the Company believes that compliance with  environmental
laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities
are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

      The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

      The Company generates wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject
to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable
state statutes.  The United States  Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
hazardous  wastes may in the  future be  designated  as  hazardous  wastes,  and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

      The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased,
properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production
of oil and gas.  Although the Company has used operating and disposal  practices
that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may
have been disposed of or released on or under the properties  owned or leased by
the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for
disposal.  In addition,  some of these  properties  have been  operated by third
parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes
was not under the Company's  control.  These  properties and the wastes disposed
thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and  analogous  state  laws.  Under such
laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate  previously  disposed
wastes or property  contamination or to perform remedial plugging  operations to
prevent future contamination.

      Federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans
relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution
Prevention Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions of the federal Water
Pollution  Control  Act of 1972,  commonly  referred  to as the Clean  Water Act
("CWA"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to
oil spills into  navigable  waters.  The OPA subjects  owners of  facilities  to
strict joint and several  liability  for all  containment  and cleanup costs and



                                       10

<PAGE>


certain other damages arising from a spill,  including,  but not limited to, the
costs of  responding  to a release of oil to surface  waters.  The CWA  provides
penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable  quantities and
imposes  substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.  OPA requires
responsible   parties  to   establish   and   maintain   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

      Many states in which the  Company operates have recently begun to regulate
naturally  occurring  radioactive  materials  ("NORM")  and NORM wastes that are
generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.
NORM wastes  typically  consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that
become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations
may require the testing of pipes and  production  equipment  for the presence of
NORM, the licensing of NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
disposal of NORM wastes.  The Company  believes  that the growing  regulation of
NORM will have a minimal effect on the Company's  operations because the Company
generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis.

      The Company does not believe that  its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise  adversely  affect the Company's  results of operations  and financial
condition.

      The Company employs an environmental manager and environmental specialists
charged with monitoring  environmental  and regulatory  compliance.  The Company
performs an environmental  review as part of the due diligence work on potential
acquisitions,  including acquisitions of oil and gas properties.  The Company is
not aware of any material  environmental legal proceedings pending against it or
any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

      The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business activities.

      Commodity prices.  The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on prices of oil and gas,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the Company's  control.  Oil and gas prices
historically have been very volatile.  A significant downward trend in commodity
prices  would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  revenues,
profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances,  result in a
reduction in the carrying  value of the Company's oil and gas  properties and an
increase in the Company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

      Drilling activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Because of the percentage of the
Company's  capital budget  devoted to higher risk  exploratory  projects,  it is
likely that the Company will continue to experience  exploration and abandonment
expense.

      Unproved properties.  At December 31,  2002 and 2001,  the Company carried
unproved  property  costs of $219.1  million and $187.8  million,  respectively.
United  States  generally  accepted   accounting   principles  require  periodic
evaluation of these costs on a  project-by-project  basis in comparison to their
estimated  value.   These  evaluations  will  be  affected  by  the  results  of
exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned  future  sales or



                                       11

<PAGE>


expiration of all or a portion of the leases,  contracts and permits appurtenant
to such  projects.  If the quantity of  potential  reserves  determined  by such
evaluations  is not  sufficient  to  fully  recover  the cost  invested  in each
project,  the Company will recognize  noncash  charges in the earnings of future
periods.

      Acquisitions. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future net revenues  attainable  from the reserves and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

      Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

      Operation of natural gas processing plants.  As of December 31,  2002, the
Company owns  interests in 11 natural gas  processing  plants and five  treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the plants  and all five  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas processing  plants.  Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include
carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation  of a natural gas  processing  plant or
facility  could result in an explosion  or the  discharge of toxic gases,  which
could result in significant  damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue
source.

      Operating hazards  and uninsured  losses.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained by comparable  companies in the oil and gas industry,
it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs  associated with
obtaining such insurance.

      Environmental.  The  oil  and  gas  business  is subject  to environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  gas leaks and  ruptures and  discharges  of toxic
substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial  liability due
to pollution and other  environmental  damage.  A variety of federal,  state and
foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas
business.  Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company
to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost
of the Company's operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs
of acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets and Regulation -
Environmental and health controls".

      The Company does not believe  that its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of  production or processing or a material  increase in
the costs of  production,  development,  exploration  or processing or otherwise
adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. Pollution and
similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

      Debt restrictions and availability.  The Company is a borrower under fixed
term senior notes and a corporate  credit  facility.  The terms of the Company's
borrowings  under the senior notes and the  corporate  credit  facility  specify
scheduled  debt  repayments  and  require  the  Company to comply  with  certain
associated covenants and restrictions.  The Company's ability to comply with the
debt repayment  terms,  associated  covenants and  restrictions is dependent on,
among other  things,  factors  outside the  Company's  direct  control,  such as
commodity  prices,  interest rates and competition for available debt financing.
See Note E of Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in  "Item 8.


                                       12

<PAGE>



Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding the
Company's outstanding debt and the terms associated therewith.

      Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation".

      Government regulation. The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation".

      International operations.  At December 31, 2002,  approximately 20 percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (16 percent in Argentina,  three percent in Canada and one percent
in South Africa). The success and profitability of international  operations may
be  adversely  affected  by  risks  associated  with  international  activities,
including  economic  and  labor  conditions,  political  instability,  tax  laws
(including  host-country export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes
on foreign  subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the
local  currencies in which oil and gas producing  activities may be denominated.
To the extent that the Company is involved in international activities,  changes
in  exchange  rates can  adversely  affect  the  Company's  future  consolidated
financial position, results of operations and liquidity. See Critical Accounting
Estimates included in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"  and Note B of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for information specific to Argentina's economic and political situation.

      Estimates of  reserves  and future  net revenues.  Numerous  uncertainties
exist in  estimating  quantities  of proved  reserves  and future  net  revenues
therefrom.  The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set
forth in this  Report are based on  various  assumptions,  which may  ultimately
prove to be inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be construed as
accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

      The information included in this  Report about the Company's oil,  NGL and
gas  reserves as of December  31, 2002 was based on reserve  reports  audited by
Netherland,  Sewell &  Associates,  Inc. for the Company's  major  properties in
Canada, South Africa and the United States,  reserve reports audited by Gaffney,
Cline &  Associates,  Inc. for the Company's  properties  located in the Neuquen
Basin in Argentina,  and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers for
all other  properties.  The reserve  audits  conducted by  Netherland,  Sewell &
Associates,   Inc.  and  Gaffney,  Cline  &  Associates,   Inc.,  in  aggregate,
represented 71 percent of the Company's  estimated proved quantities of reserves
as of December 31, 2002. The information in this Report about the Company's oil,
NGL and gas  reserves  as of  December  31,  2001 and 2000 was  based on  proved
reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.

      Numerous uncertainties exist  in estimating  quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report
contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production,  oil and gas prices,  revenues,
taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities
of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in
the estimates and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related
Standardized  Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report.  In addition,
the Company's  reserves may be subject to downward or upward  revisions based on
production  performance,  purchases  or sales of  properties,  results of future
development,  prevailing  oil and  gas  prices  and  other  factors.  Therefore,
estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed
as  accurate  estimates  of the current  market  value of the  Company's  proved
reserves.

      Standardized Measure  is a  reporting  convention  that  provides a common
basis for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and  regulations
of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices  prevailing as of the
date of  computation.  Consequently,  it may not reflect  the prices  ordinarily
received  or that will be received  for oil and gas  because of  seasonal  price
fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any



                                       13

<PAGE>



date  are  not   necessarily   indicative  of  future   results  of  operations.
Accordingly,  estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially
different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.

      The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves
during 2002,  2001 or 2000 to any federal  authority  or agency,  other than the
SEC.

Proved Reserves

      The Company's proved reserves totaled  736.7 million  BOE at  December 31,
2002,  671.4  million BOE at December 31, 2001 and 628.2 million BOE at December
31,  2000,   representing   $4.1   billion,   $2.5  billion  and  $5.6  billion,
respectively,  of  Standardized  Measure or $5.1 billion,  $2.5 billion and $7.0
billion,  respectively,  on a pre-tax basis. The ten percent increase in reserve
volumes  and 65  percent  increase  in  Standardized  Measure  during  2002 were
attributable  to an increase in commodity  prices,  the purchase of  incremental
interests in two core assets and the Company's  successful capital  investments.
The seven percent  increase in proved reserve  volumes during 2001 was primarily
attributable  to the  Company's  successful  capital  investments,  while the 56
percent  decrease  in  Standardized  Measure  during 2001 was  primarily  due to
decreases in commodity prices.

      On a  BOE basis,  67  percent of the  Company's  total proved  reserves at
December 31, 2002 were proved developed  reserves.  Based on reserve information
as of December 31, 2002,  and using the  Company's  production  information  for
2002,  the  reserve-to-production  ratio  associated  with the Company's  proved
reserves was 18 years on a BOE basis.  The following table provides  information
regarding  the  Company's  proved  reserves  and  average  daily  production  by
geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2002:

            PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION
<TABLE>

                                                                                        2002 Average
                               Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2002               Daily Production (a)
                         --------------------------------------------------    --------------------------------
                            Oil                                Standardized      Oil
                          & NGLs         Gas                      Measure       & NGLs       Gas
                          (MBbls)       (MMcf)       MBOE          (000)        (Bbls)      (Mcf)        BOE
                         ---------    ---------    --------    ------------    --------    --------    --------

<S>                        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>         <C>         <C>
United States.........     337,631    1,483,971     584,960     $ 3,456,691      43,949     232,360      82,677
Argentina.............      31,532      532,081     120,211         340,106       8,680      78,220      21,716
Canada................       2,361      119,328      22,249         199,012       1,070      48,365       9,131
South Africa..........       8,475          -         8,475         121,363         -           -           -
Tunisia...............         845          -           845           9,380         -           -           -
                         ---------    ---------    --------      ----------    --------    --------    --------
Total.................     380,844    2,135,380     736,740     $ 4,126,552      53,699     358,945     113,524
                         =========    =========    ========      ==========    ========    ========    ========
<FN>
- ----------------
(a)  The 2002 average daily  production was calculated  using a 365-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement

       The Company's  acquisition and  finding costs per BOE for 2002,  2001 and
2000 were $6.30, $7.49 and $4.66 per BOE, respectively.  The average acquisition
and finding cost for the three-year  period from 2000 to 2002 was $6.24 per BOE,
representing  a 32 percent  increase  over the 2001  three-year  average rate of
$4.74 per BOE. This increase was largely  attributable  to the $221.6 million of
development  capital  that the Company  spent  during 2002 to develop its Canyon
Express,  Falcon and Devils Tower development  projects in the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico and its Sable development project offshore South Africa.

       During 2002, the Company replaced 258 percent of its annual production on
a BOE basis (384 percent for oil and NGLs and 144 percent for gas). During 2001,
the Company  replaced 208 percent of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (169
percent  for oil and NGLs and 245  percent for gas).  During  2000,  the Company
replaced  167 percent of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (196 percent for
oil and NGLs and 140 percent for gas).  The Company's  2002 reserve  replacement
percentage  was the result of  revisions  of previous  estimates  and  revisions
related to changes in commodity prices,  asset purchases and new discoveries and
field  extensions.   The  Company's  2001  reserve  replacement  percentage  was


                                       14

<PAGE>



primarily  impacted by asset purchases and new discoveries and field  extensions
while  the  2000  reserve  replacement  percentage  was  primarily  impacted  by
revisions related to changes in commodity prices.

Description of Properties

       As of December 31,  2002,  the Company  has production and/or development
and exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, South Africa
and Tunisia, and exploration opportunities in Gabon.

       Domestic.  The Company's  domestic  operations are located in the Permian
Basin, Mid Continent,  Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United
States.  The Company also has unproved  properties in Alaska.  Approximately  82
percent of the Company's  domestic proved reserves are located in the Spraberry,
Hugoton  and West  Panhandle  fields.  The mature  Spraberry,  Hugoton  and West
Panhandle fields generate  substantial  operating cash flow and have a portfolio
of low risk infill drilling  opportunities.  The cash flows generated from these
fields  provide  funding for the Company's  other  development  and  exploration
activities  both  domestically  and  internationally.  During 2002,  the Company
expended  $533.6 million in domestic  acquisition,  exploration  and development
drilling  activities.  The Company has budgeted  approximately  $300 million for
domestic  acquisition,  exploration and development  drilling  expenditures  for
2003.

       Spraberry  field.   The  Spraberry  field  was  discovered  in  1949  and
encompasses  eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately  150 miles
long and 75 miles  wide at its  widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas
Intermediate  Sweet,  and the gas  produced  is  casinghead  gas with an average
energy  content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf.  The oil and gas are  produced  from three
formations,  the upper and lower  Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from
6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry  field was unitized in the
late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late
1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the
Company has focused its development  drilling activities in the unitized portion
of the  Spraberry  field due to the dormant  condition  of the  properties.  The
Company believes the area offers excellent  opportunities to enhance oil and gas
reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling locations,  many
of which are reflected in the Company's  proved  undeveloped  reserves,  and the
ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.

       During 2002, the Company placed 89 Spraberry wells on production, drilled
one developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 2002, had two wells in progress.
The Company plans to drill  approximately 150 development wells in the Spraberry
field during 2003.

       Hugoton field.  The Hugoton  field in  southwest  Kansas  is  one  of the
largest  producing  gas  fields in the  continental  United  States.  The gas is
produced  from the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging from
2,700  feet  to  3,000  feet.  The  Company's   Hugoton   properties   represent
approximately  13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on
approximately  257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres),  covering  approximately
400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells
in the Hugoton  field,  about 1,000 of which it  operates,  and partial  royalty
interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns  substantially all of the
gathering and processing  facilities,  primarily the Satanta plant, that service
its  production  from the Hugoton field.  Such  ownership  allows the Company to
control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated
NGLs.

       The   Company's  Hugoton   operated  wells  are   capable  of   producing
approximately  97 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e.,  gas production at the wellhead
before   processing  and  before  reduction  for  royalties),   although  actual
production  in  the  Hugoton  field  is  limited  by  allowables  set  by  state
regulators.  The  Company  estimates  that it and other major  producers  in the
Hugoton  field  produced at or near capacity in 2002.  During 2002,  the Company
completed four development wells in the Hugoton field and plans for 2003 include
approximately 30 wells to be drilled.

       The Company is continuing  to evaluate the feasibility of infill drilling
into the Council  Grove  Formation and may submit an  application  to the Kansas
Corporation  Commission  to allow  infill  drilling.  Such infill  drilling  may
increase  production from the Company's Hugoton  properties.  However,  until an
application  has been  approved,  the Company will not reflect any of the infill
drilling  locations as proved  undeveloped  reserves.  There can be no assurance
that the  application  will be filed or  approved,  or as to the  timing of such
approval if granted.

       West Panhandle field.  The West Panhandle  properties are  located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,



                                       15

<PAGE>



Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet.  The  Company's  gas in the West  Panhandle  field has an  average  energy
content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is  produced  from  approximately  600 wells on
more than 241,000 acres covering over 375 square miles.  The Company's  wellhead
gas produced  from the West  Panhandle  field  contains a high quantity of NGLs,
yielding  relatively  greater NGL volumes than realized from the Company's 1,025
Btu per Mcf content  wellhead  gas in its Hugoton  field.  In 2002,  the Company
purchased  the  remaining  rights it did not already own in the field as well as
the gathering system. The Company now controls the wells,  production equipment,
gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.

       During 2002, the Company placed 40 new wells on production, drilled three
developmental dry holes and had four wells in progress at December 31, 2002. The
Company  plans to drill  approximately  100  wells in the West  Panhandle  field
during 2003.

       Gulf of Mexico area.  In the  Gulf of  Mexico,  the Company is focused on
reserve  and  production  growth  through a  portfolio  of shelf  and  deepwater
development projects,  high-impact,  higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling,
shelf  exploration  drilling  and  exploitation  opportunities  inherent  in the
properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this,
the Company has devoted  most of its domestic  exploration  efforts to these two
areas, as well as its investment in and  utilization of 3-D seismic  technology.
During  2002,  the  Company   successfully  drilled  six  development  and  four
exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one successful exploratory
well and one successful  development well on the shelf. The Company also drilled
two  exploratory  dry holes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one  exploratory
dry hole on the shelf during 2002.

       In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  the Company has  sanctioned three major
development  projects,  one of which is now on  production  and two that were in
progress at December 31, 2002:

o    Canyon   Express   -   The   TotalFinaElf-operated    Aconcagua   and   the
     Marathon-operated  Camden  Hills  discoveries  in  Mississippi  Canyon were
     jointly  developed as part of the Canyon  Express gas  project.  Production
     start-up  occurred in late  September;  however,  several  operational  and
     mechanical  difficulties were encountered which has resulted in the Company
     not reaching its estimated net  production  level of 110 to 120 MMcf of gas
     per day until late January 2003.

o    Devils Tower - At the Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project in
     Mississippi Canyon, the Company  successfully  drilled two wells to explore
     for new reserves in previously  undrilled  reservoirs and to further extend
     the previously tested zones and three development  wells.  During 2001, the
     project  was  sanctioned  as a spar  development  project  with the  owners
     leasing a spar from a third  party for the life of the field.  Construction
     of the spar is in progress,  the eight producing wells on Devils Tower have
     been drilled and are awaiting  completion  and production is anticipated to
     begin  during  the first  quarter  of 2004.  The wells  will be  brought on
     sequentially  with peak production  expected to reach 12,000 to 15,000 BOEs
     per day net to the Company's 25 percent working interest.

o    Falcon - The Company-operated Falcon project is on pace to be on production
     in April 2003. Two development wells were drilled and completed during 2002
     and the final stages of the facilities  fabrication  and  installation  are
     currently underway.  Peak production from Falcon is anticipated at rates of
     approximately  130  MMcf of gas per day  net to the  Company's  75  percent
     working interest.

       During 2002,  the Company  also  participated in  two appraisal sidetrack
wells on the Marathon-operated  deepwater Gulf of Mexico Ozona Deep prospect, of
which one was a discovery.  The 2002 discovery  sidetrack appraisal well further
extended the 2001 Ozona Deep discovery that originally encountered approximately
345 feet of net oil pay in two  intervals.  The Company is currently  evaluating
possible  tie-back  opportunities  to  existing  facilities  in  the  area,  the
economics  of  which  will  determine  future   activities.   The  Company  also
successfully  drilled its  Dominion-operated  Triton prospect near Devils Tower.
Proved  reserves  were  recorded for this prospect and it will be completed as a
subsea tieback to Devils Tower.  Exploration  drilling near the Falcon discovery
began in December  2002 with the  Lightning  prospect and in January 2003 on the
H2.5 and  Harrier  prospects.  The  Lightning  and H2.5  exploratory  wells were
unsuccessful; however, the Harrier prospect was announced as a discovery in late
January 2003. It is  anticipated  that the Harrier well will be completed with a
subsea tieback to Falcon within nine to 15 months. During 2003, the Company also
plans to drill its Buff prospect, which is also near the Falcon discovery.


                                       16

<PAGE>



       During January 2003,  the Company announced a joint exploration agreement
with Woodside  Energy (USA) Inc.  ("Woodside"),  a subsidiary of Woodside Energy
Ltd. of Australia, for a two-year drilling program over the shallow- water Texas
shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement, Woodside has taken a 50
percent  working  interest in 47  offshore  exploration  blocks  operated by the
Company.  The  agreement  covers eight  prospects and 19 leads and includes five
exploratory  wells to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004. Most of the wells to
be drilled  under the  agreement  will target gas plays below 15,000  feet.  The
eight  wells to be  drilled  by the  parties  in 2003 and 2004 are on  prospects
generated  and leased by the Company since 1997.  Additionally,  the Company and
Woodside will evaluate for potential inclusion in the drilling program shallower
gas prospects on the Gulf of Mexico shelf on other blocks covered by the leases.

       Onshore Gulf Coast area.  The Company has focused its drilling efforts in
this area on the Pawnee  field in the  Edwards  Reef trend in South  Texas.  The
Company  drilled six  development  wells at Pawnee during 2002,  had one well in
progress at year end and plans to drill seven wells in 2003.

       Alaska area.  During the  fourth quarter  of 2002,  the Company signed an
agreement with Armstrong Resources LLC under which the Company was assigned a 70
percent working  interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North
Slope.  The leases cover  approximately  14,000  undeveloped  acres  between the
Kuparuk  River unit and Thetis  Island.  The Company  plans to drill up to three
exploratory  wells during the first quarter of 2003. The wells will test an area
that the  Company  believes  is  prospective  for oil in the  same  sands as the
offsetting  Kuparuk River unit eight to ten miles to the southeast.  The Kuparuk
River unit was  discovered in 1969 and is estimated to hold 2.5 billion  barrels
of  recoverable  oil. No wells have been  drilled on the acreage  covered by the
Company's  leases to date,  but wells  drilled just outside the perimeter of the
acreage  have  encountered  the  primary  target  Kuparuk  "C"  sands  and  were
oil-bearing. The acreage is offshore in approximately five to ten feet of water.
Drilling plans call for grounded sea ice pad locations that will be accessed via
ice roads from Oliktok  Point dock.  All sea ice  operations  are expected to be
completed by the end of March 2003.

       International.  The Company's international operations are located in the
Neuquen and Austral  Basins areas of Argentina and the  Chinchaga,  Martin Creek
and Lookout Butte areas of Canada. Additionally, the Company's other significant
development  projects,  the Sable oil field  located in shallow  water  offshore
South Africa and the Adam discovery in southern Tunisia, are scheduled for first
production in mid-2003.  The Company has also entered into agreements to explore
for oil and gas reserves in South Africa,  Gabon and Tunisia. As of December 31,
2002,  approximately 16 percent, three percent, one percent and one tenth of one
percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada, South
Africa and Tunisia, respectively.

       Argentina. The  Company's  share  of  Argentine  production  during  2002
averaged  21.7  MBOE per day,  or  approximately  19  percent  of the  Company's
equivalent  production.  The  Company's  operated  production  in  Argentina  is
concentrated  in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of
Buenos  Aires and to the east of the Andes  Mountains.  Oil and gas are produced
primarily  from the Al Norte de la Dorsal,  the Al Sur de la Dorsal,  the Dadin,
the Loma Negra, the Anticlinal Campamento and the Estacion Fernandez Oro blocks,
in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. Most of the gas
produced from these blocks is processed in the Company's recently completed Loma
Negra gas  processing  plant.  The Company  also  operates  and has a 50 percent
working  interest  in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra del Fuego,
an island in the extreme  southern  portion of  Argentina,  approximately  1,500
miles south of Buenos Aires.

       Most of the Company's non-operated  production in Argentina is located in
Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced  from six separate  fields
in which the Company has a 35 percent working  interest.  The Company also has a
14.4 percent working  interest in the Confluencia  field which is located in the
Neuquen Basin.

       During 2002,  the Company expended $35.1 million on Argentine development
and  exploration  activities.  The Company  drilled 14 development  wells and 17
extension/exploratory   wells,   of  which  13   development   wells   and  nine
extension/exploratory  wells were  successful.  Also  during  2002,  the Company
completed  its gas  processing  plant at Loma Negra and  completed a 35 mile gas
pipeline that connects the Loma Negra plant to a main gas transmission line that
accesses the Buenos Aires gas market.  The Company plans to spend  approximately
$45  million  on oil  and  gas  development  and  exploration  opportunities  in
Argentina during 2003.


                                       17

<PAGE>



       Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily
in Alberta and British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production  during 2002 averaged 9.1
MBOE per  day,  or  approximately  eight  percent  of the  Company's  equivalent
production.  The Company  continues to focus its  development,  exploration  and
acquisition  activities  in the core areas of  northeast  British  Columbia  and
southwest  Alberta.   The  Canadian  assets  are  geographically   concentrated,
predominantly  shallow  gas and more than 95 percent  operated by the Company in
the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte.

       Production  from the  Chinchaga  area in  northeast  British  Columbia is
relatively dry gas from  formation  depths  averaging  3,400 feet. In the Martin
Creek area of British  Columbia,  production is relatively  dry gas from various
reservoirs  ranging  from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet.  The  Lookout  Butte area in
southwest  Alberta  produces gas and condensate  from the  Mississippian  Turner
Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet.

       During 2002,  the Company expended $33.5 million on Canadian development,
exploration and acquisition activities. The Company drilled 17 development wells
and 12 exploratory wells,  primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of
which 13  development  wells and 9 exploratory  wells were  successful.  Most of
these  wells  were  drilled  during the first  quarter  as these  areas are only
accessible  for drilling  during the winter  months.  The Company plans to spend
approximately   $45  million  on  oil  and  gas   development   and  exploration
opportunities in Canada during 2003.

       Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for
oil and gas in South  Africa,  Gabon and  Tunisia.  The  amended  South  African
agreements  cover over five  million  acres  along the  southern  coast of South
Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers
313,937  acres off the coast of Gabon,  generally  in water depths less than 100
feet. The Tunisian  agreements can be separated into two  categories:  the first
includes three permits covering 2.9 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which
the Company  operates with a 50 percent working interest and the second includes
the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern
Tunisia  in which  the  Company  has a 38.7  percent  working  interest  and the
AGIP-operated  Borj El Khadra permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern
Tunisia in which the Company has a 40 percent working interest. During 2002, the
Company  expended  $70.3 million of  acquisition,  development  and  exploration
drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.

       South Africa.  In  South  Africa,  the  Company  spent  $37.1  million of
drilling and seismic capital to drill four successful  development  wells on its
Petro SA-operated Sable development  project.  During 2003, the Company plans to
complete its Sable  development  project with  production  anticipated  to begin
during the second quarter of 2003.  Production for the first year is expected to
average approximately 12,100 Bbls of oil per day net to the Company's 40 percent
working  interest.  In  addition,  the  Company  currently  plans to drill three
exploration wells in South Africa during 2003.

         Gabon.  In Gabon,  the  Company  spent  $23.6  million of  drilling and
seismic  capital to drill and test  three  additional  exploratory  wells on its
Bigorneau  South prospect,  located  offshore in the Southern Gabon Basin on its
Olowi permit.  Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent  working
interest.  To date, the Company has drilled and tested four successful  offshore
wells which have established  significant oil in place.  Full development of the
field is expected to involve  substantial  capital  investment  underscoring the
importance of confirming reservoir characteristics and productivity.  Pioneer is
currently  seeking  bids  for the  development  of an  early  production  system
covering a limited  field area which would allow the Company to gain  additional
information  needed to design a full field development plan. The Company is also
seeking improved fiscal terms from the government.

       Tunisia.  In Tunisia,  the  Company  spent  $8.2  million of acquisition,
drilling and seismic capital  primarily to acquire a 40 percent  interest in and
drill an exploration well on the AGIP-operated Borj El Khadra permit.  This well
encountered several oil and gas productive zones that tested up to 6,000 Bbls of
oil per day. The Company  plans to complete the  construction  of a 15 kilometer
flowline  from the  discovery  to an  AGIP-operated  facility  during  the third
quarter of 2003,  allowing  production  to begin from the initial  well  shortly
thereafter.  A development well is scheduled to be drilled in the fourth quarter
of 2003.  In addition  to this  development  project,  plans for Tunisia in 2003
include an exploration well to be drilled on the  Company-operated  Jorf permit,
two exploration wells to be drilled on the Anadarko-operated  Anaguid permit and
an additional exploration well to be drilled on the AGIP-operated Borj El Khadra
permit.



                                       18

<PAGE>



Selected Oil and Gas Information

       The following tables  set forth  selected oil and gas information for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2002,  2001 and 2000.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented  below  should  not be  interpreted  as being
indicative of future results.

       Production,  price  and  cost  data.   The  following  table  sets  forth
production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:
<TABLE>

                                                          PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)

                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  2002                                  2001                                 2000
                    -----------------------------------    ----------------------------------   ----------------------------------
                    United                                United                               United
                    States  Argentina  Canada    Total    States  Argentina  Canada    Total   States   Argentina  Canada   Total
                    ------  ---------  ------   -------   ------  ---------  ------   -------  -------  ---------  ------  -------
<S>                 <C>     <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>        <C>     <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
  Oil (MBbls)....    8,555     2,914       45    11,514    8,629     3,566       303   12,498    8,989     3,238      308   12,535
  NGLs (MBbls)...    7,487       254      345     8,086    7,232       200       368    7,800    7,883       193      303    8,379
  Gas (MMcf).....   84,811    28,551   17,653   131,015   77,609    31,830    18,426  127,865   83,930    35,695   16,219  135,844
  Total (MBOE)...   30,177     7,926    3,333    41,436   28,796     9,071     3,742   41,609   30,861     9,380    3,314   43,555
 Average daily production:
  Oil (Bbls).....   23,437     7,984      124    31,545   23,641     9,769       831   34,241   24,561     8,847      841   34,249
  NGLs (Bbls)....   20,512       696      946    22,154   19,815       547     1,008   21,370   21,538       527      829   22,894
  Gas (Mcf)......  232,360    78,220   48,365   358,945  212,629    87,204    50,481  350,314  229,316    97,526   44,315  371,157
  Total (BOE)....   82,677    21,716    9,131   113,524   78,894    24,851    10,253  113,997   84,318    25,628    9,056  119,002
Average prices, including hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl)..  $ 23.66   $ 20.63   $22.26   $ 22.89  $ 24.34    $23.79   $ 21.87  $ 24.12  $ 22.07    $29.09   $27.50  $ 24.01
  NGLs (per Bbl).  $ 13.77   $ 14.56   $16.77   $ 13.92  $ 16.88    $19.29   $ 21.11  $ 17.14  $ 20.05    $22.91   $24.32  $ 20.27
  Gas (per Mcf)..  $  3.16   $   .48   $ 2.50   $  2.49  $  4.10    $ 1.31   $  2.86  $  3.23  $  3.50    $ 1.19   $ 2.88  $  2.81
  Revenue (per BOE)$ 19.00   $  9.79   $15.27   $ 16.94  $ 22.56    $14.36   $ 17.94  $ 20.36  $ 21.04    $15.03   $18.85  $ 19.58
Average prices, excluding hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl)..  $ 23.85   $ 20.33   $22.26   $ 22.95  $ 24.56    $22.40   $ 21.87  $ 23.88  $ 28.76    $29.09   $27.50  $ 28.81
  NGLs (per Bbl).  $ 13.77   $ 14.56   $16.77   $ 13.92  $ 16.88    $19.29   $ 21.11  $ 17.14  $ 20.05    $22.91   $24.32  $ 20.27
  Gas (per Mcf)..  $  3.02   $   .48   $ 2.40   $  2.38  $  3.96    $ 1.31   $  3.27  $  3.20  $  3.73    $ 1.19   $ 3.45  $  3.03
  Revenue (per BOE)$ 18.65   $  9.68   $14.77   $ 16.63  $ 22.26    $13.81   $ 19.95  $ 20.21  $ 23.63    $15.03   $21.65  $ 21.63
Average costs:
 Production costs (per BOE):
  Lease operating  $  3.21   $  1.61   $ 2.64   $  2.87  $  2.76    $ 2.64   $  3.01  $  2.76  $  2.45    $ 2.30   $ 2.53  $  2.42
  Taxes:
    Production...      .71       .13      -         .54      .98       .28       -        .74      .99       .30      -        .77
    Ad valorem...      .75       -        -         .54      .71       -         -        .49      .41       -        -        .29
  Field fuel.....      .85       -        -         .62     1.27       -         -        .88     1.01       -        -        .71
  Workover.......      .28       .01      .59       .25      .20       .01       .32      .17      .17       -        .42      .15
                    ------    ------    -----    ------   ------     -----    ------   ------   ------     -----    -----   ------
     Total.......  $  5.80   $  1.75   $ 3.23   $  4.82  $  5.92    $ 2.93   $  3.33  $  5.04  $  5.03    $ 2.60   $ 2.95  $  4.34
 Depletion expense
   (per BOE).....  $  4.64   $  5.00   $ 8.36   $  5.01  $  4.46    $ 5.67   $  7.71  $  5.02  $  3.95    $ 5.56   $ 7.58  $  4.57
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       19

<PAGE>



       Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000:

                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
<TABLE>

                                     Gross Productive Wells          Net Productive Wells
                                  --------------------------      -------------------------
                                    Oil       Gas     Total         Oil      Gas     Total
                                  ------    ------    ------      ------   ------   -------
<S>                               <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>      <C>      <C>
As of December 31, 2002:
   United States................   3,448     1,952     5,400       2,745    1,855     4,600
   Argentina....................     694       208       902         534      142       676
   Canada.......................       1       246       247           1      197       198
   South Africa.................       4       -           4           2      -           2
   Tunisia......................       1       -           1         -        -         -
                                  ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total.....................   4,148     2,406     6,554       3,282    2,194     5,476
                                  ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
As of December 31, 2001:
   United States................   3,485     1,931     5,416       2,116    1,613     3,729
   Argentina....................     669       162       831         454      132       586
   Canada.......................       4       299       303           3      240       243
                                  ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total.....................   4,158     2,392     6,550       2,573    1,985     4,558
                                  ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
As of December 31, 2000:
   United States................   3,577     1,847     5,424       2,166    1,550     3,716
   Argentina....................     575       211       786         434      154       588
   Canada.......................      95       234       329          45      175       220
                                  ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total.....................   4,247     2,292     6,539       2,645    1,879     4,524
                                  ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December  31,  2002,  the  Company  owned  interests  in  111  gross  wells
     containing multiple completions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

       Leasehold acreage.  The following table  sets forth information about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2002:

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>

                                      Developed Acreage        Undeveloped Acreage
                                  ------------------------   ------------------------    Royalty
                                  Gross Acres   Net Acres    Gross Acres    Net Acres    Acreage
                                  -----------   ----------   -----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                               <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
As of December 31, 2002:
  United States:
     Onshore...................      996,896       871,234       198,729      156,815    229,686
     Offshore..................      125,786        53,120       604,287      506,712     10,500
                                  ----------    ----------   -----------   ----------   --------
                                   1,122,682       924,354       803,016      663,527    240,186
  Argentina....................      710,000       299,000     1,002,000      925,000        -
  Canada.......................      152,000       116,000       356,000      276,000     12,000
  South Africa.................        9,600         3,840     5,368,400    4,009,160        -
  Gabon........................          -             -         313,937      313,937        -
  Tunisia......................          -             -       5,308,498    2,402,667        -
                                  ----------    ----------   -----------   ----------   --------
     Total.....................    1,994,282     1,343,194    13,151,851    8,590,291    252,186
                                  ==========    ==========   ===========   ==========   ========
</TABLE>




                                       20

<PAGE>



       Drilling activities.  The following table  sets forth the number of gross
and net  productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001  and  2000.  This
information  should not be  considered  indicative  of future  performance,  nor
should it be  assumed  that  there was any  correlation  between  the  number of
productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves  generated  thereby or the
costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.

                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES
<TABLE>

                                            Gross Wells                  Net Wells
                                    --------------------------    --------------------------
                                     Year Ended December 31,        Year Ended December 31,
                                    --------------------------    --------------------------
                                     2002      2001      2000      2002      2001      2000
                                    ------    ------    ------    ------    ------    ------
<S>                                 <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
United States:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................      148       228       159      83.0      114.6     91.3
    Exploratory.................        6        20        11       2.0       11.0      4.7
  Dry holes:
    Development.................        4        15         3       3.7       14.6      1.9
    Exploratory.................        3         8         3       2.1        5.1      1.6
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
                                      161       271       176      90.8      145.3     99.5
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
Argentina:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................       13        19        28      13.0       17.7     26.7
    Exploratory.................        9        26        38       9.0       25.5     37.6
  Dry holes:
    Development.................        1         1         2       1.0        1.0      2.0
    Exploratory.................        8        16        16       8.0       14.0     14.5
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
                                       31        62        84      31.0       58.2     80.8
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
Canada:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................       13        24        17      10.4       20.3     17.9
    Exploratory.................        9        12        12       9.0       10.2      9.9
  Dry holes:
    Development.................        4         2         4       4.0        2.0      2.5
    Exploratory.................        3        13         2       3.0       11.8      1.9
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
                                       29        51        35      26.4       44.3     32.2
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
Africa:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................        4       -         -         1.6        -        -
    Exploratory.................        4         3       -         3.4        2.4      -
  Dry holes:
    Development.................      -         -         -         -          -        -
    Exploratory.................      -           3         1       -          1.9      1.0
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
                                        8         6         1       5.0        4.3      1.0
                                    -----     -----     -----     -----     ------   ------
    Total.......................      229       390       296     153.2      252.1    213.5
                                    =====     =====     =====     =====     ======   ======

Success ratio (a)...............      90%       85%       90%       86%        80%      88%
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Represents  the ratio of those wells that were  successfully  completed  as
     producing  wells or wells  capable of producing to total wells  drilled and
     evaluated.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       21

<PAGE>



       The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon
which drilling was in progress on December 31, 2002:
<TABLE>

                                                       Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                                       -----------    ---------
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>
United States:
  Development.........................................        7            6.5
  Exploratory.........................................      -              -
                                                          -----         ------
                                                              7            6.5
                                                          -----         ------
Argentina:
  Development.........................................        3            3.0
  Exploratory.........................................        6            6.0
                                                          -----         ------
                                                              9            9.0
                                                          -----         ------
Canada:
  Development.........................................        4            4.0
  Exploratory.........................................        4            4.0
                                                          -----         ------
                                                              8            8.0
                                                          -----         ------
     Total............................................       24           23.5
                                                          =====         ======
</TABLE>

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       The Company is party  to various  legal proceedings,  which are described
under "Legal  actions" in Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  The claims for
damages  from such other  legal  actions  are not in excess of 10 percent of the
Company's  current  assets and the Company  believes none of these actions to be
material.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       The Company  did not submit  any  matters to a vote  of security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 2002.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

       The Company's  common stock is  listed and  traded on  the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol "PXD". The following table sets forth, for the periods
indicated,  the high and low sales prices for the  Company's  common  stock,  as
reported in the New York Stock Exchange  composite  transactions.  The Company's
$575 million  credit  agreement  restricts  the Company from paying or declaring
dividends on common stock and certain  other  payments in excess of an aggregate
$50 million annually. The Company's board of directors did not declare dividends
to the holders of the Company's  common stock during 2002 or 2001. The Company's
board  of  directors  has no  current  plans to  declare  dividends  during  the
foreseeable future.
<TABLE>

                                                             High         Low
                                                          --------     --------
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 2002:
   Fourth quarter.......................................  $  27.50     $  21.70
   Third quarter........................................  $  26.23     $  19.50
   Second quarter.......................................  $  26.05     $  20.00
   First quarter........................................  $  22.30     $  16.10

Year ended December 31, 2001:
   Fourth quarter.......................................  $  19.70     $  13.22
   Third quarter........................................  $  19.38     $  12.62
   Second quarter.......................................  $  23.05     $  14.30
   First quarter........................................  $  20.24     $  15.45
</TABLE>

       On February 14,  2003,  the  last reported  sales price  of the Company's
common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions,
was $24.25 per share.

       As of  February  14,  2003,  the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 30,951 holders of record.


                                       22

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       The following selected consolidated financial data for the Company should
be read in  conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------
                                                     2002       2001       2000       1999       1998
                                                   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                           (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues and other income:
    Oil and gas................................    $  701.8   $  847.0   $  852.7   $  644.6   $  711.5
    Interest and other (a).....................        11.2       21.8       25.8       89.7       10.4
    Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net..         4.4        7.7       34.2      (24.2)       (.4)
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
                                                      717.4      876.5      912.7      710.1      721.5
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production.....................       199.6      209.7      189.3      159.5      223.5
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization...       216.4      222.6      214.9      236.1      337.3
    Impairment of properties and facilities....         -          -          -         17.9      459.5
    Exploration and abandonments...............        85.9      127.9       87.5       66.0      121.9
    General and administrative.................        48.4       37.0       33.3       40.2       82.6
    Reorganization.............................         -          -          -          8.5       33.2
    Interest...................................        95.8      131.9      162.0      170.3      164.3
    Other (b)..................................        17.2       39.6       67.2       34.7       30.0
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
                                                      663.3      768.7      754.2      733.2    1,452.3
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
  Income (loss) before income taxes and
    extraordinary items........................        54.1      107.8      158.5      (23.1)    (730.8)
  Income tax benefit (provision)...............        (5.1)      (4.0)       6.0         .6      (15.6)
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
  Income (loss) before extraordinary items.....        49.0      103.8      164.5      (22.5)    (746.4)
  Extraordinary items (c)......................       (22.3)      (3.8)     (12.3)       -          -
                                                    -------     ------    -------    -------    -------
  Net income (loss)............................    $   26.7   $  100.0   $  152.2   $  (22.5)  $ (746.4)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Income (loss) before extraordinary items
   per share:
    Basic......................................    $    .44   $   1.05   $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
    Diluted....................................    $    .43   $   1.04   $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Net income (loss) per share:
    Basic......................................    $    .24   $   1.01   $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
    Diluted....................................    $    .23   $   1.00   $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Dividends per share .........................    $    -     $    -     $    -     $    -     $    .10
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Weighted average shares outstanding:
    Basic......................................       112.5       98.5       99.4      100.3      100.1
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
    Diluted....................................       114.3       99.7       99.8      100.3      100.1
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
Statement of Cash Flows Data:
  Cash flows from operating activities.........    $  332.2   $  475.6   $  430.1   $  255.2   $  314.1
  Cash flows from investing activities.........    $ (508.1)  $ (422.7)  $ (194.5)  $  199.0   $ (517.0)
  Cash flows from financing activities.........    $  170.9   $  (64.0)  $ (244.1)  $ (479.1)  $  190.9

Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Working capital (deficit)....................    $ (127.5)  $   27.4   $  (25.1)  $  (13.7)  $ (324.8)
  Property, plant and equipment, net...........    $3,168.4   $2,784.3   $2,515.0   $2,503.0   $3,034.1
  Total assets.................................    $3,455.1   $3,271.1   $2,954.4   $2,929.5   $3,481.3
  Long-term obligations........................    $1,796.9   $1,743.7   $1,804.5   $1,914.5   $2,101.2
  Total stockholders' equity...................    $1,374.9   $1,285.4   $  904.9   $  774.6   $  789.1
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  1999 includes $41.8 million of option fees and liquidated damages and $30.2
     million of income associated with an excise tax refund.
(b)  Other  expense for 2002  includes  $6.9  million  and $2.6  million for the
     remeasurement  of  Argentine   peso-denominated  net  monetary  assets  and
     Canadian  gas  marketing  losses,  respectively.  Other  expense  for  2001
     includes  $11.5  million,  $9.9  million  and $7.7  million of charges  for
     changes in the fair values of  derivatives  excluded from hedge  accounting
     treatment;   Canadian  gas  marketing  losses;  and  the  remeasurement  of
     Argentine  peso-denominated  net monetary  assets and adjustments to reduce
     the  carrying  value of  Argentine  lease and well  equipment  inventory to
     market value,  respectively.  Other expense for 2000, 1999 and 1998 include
     noncash  mark-to-market charges for changes in the fair values of non-hedge
     financial  instruments of $58.5  million,  $27.0 million and $21.2 million,
     respectively.
(c)  The  Company's   extraordinary   items  represent  losses  from  the  early
     extinguishment  of  debt.  See  Notes  B and  E of  Notes  to  Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary Data" for information  regarding the Company's  extraordinary
     items.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       23

<PAGE>




ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2002 Financial and Operating Performance

       The year ended December 31,  2002 was  highlighted by favorable commodity
prices and  continued  strengthening  of North  American gas  fundamentals;  the
issuance of 11.5 million shares of common stock to fund  strategic  acquisitions
in the  Company's  core  areas of the West  Panhandle  gas field and the Gulf of
Mexico Falcon field  development  project;  initial  production  from the Canyon
Express gas  project;  continued  development  of the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico
Devils Tower and Falcon  fields and the Sable oil field  offshore  South Africa;
indications  that  the  Argentine  economy  and  currency  may  be  stabilizing;
continued  evaluation of the Gabon discovery;  an oil discovery in Tunisia;  the
acquisition of  undeveloped  property  interests in Alaska;  the completion of a
public  offering of $150 million of 7-1/2 percent  senior notes that will mature
in 2012;  and  repurchases  of $61.0 million of higher  yielding  funded debt to
reduce the Company's future costs of capital.

       During the years ended December 31,  2002,  2001  and  2000,  the Company
recorded net income of $26.7  million,  $100.0 million and $152.2 million ($.23,
$1.00  and  $1.53  per  diluted  share),  respectively.  Compared  to 2001,  the
Company's 2002 total revenues and other income  decreased by $159.0 million,  or
18 percent,  including a $145.2  million  decrease in oil and gas revenues.  The
decrease  in oil and gas  revenues  was due to  decreases  of five  percent,  19
percent  and 23  percent  in  average  oil,  NGL and gas  prices,  respectively,
including the effects of commodity price hedges.

       Compared to 2001,  the Company's 2002 total  costs and expenses decreased
by $105.4 million,  or 14 percent.  The decrease in total costs and expenses was
primarily reflective of a $42.0 million decrease in exploration and abandonments
expense, primarily due to the allocation of a larger percentage of the Company's
2002 capital budget to the development of the Company's Canyon Express,  Falcon,
Devils Tower and Sable projects;  a $36.1 million decrease in interest  expense,
primarily due to declining  underlying  market interest rates,  interest savings
associated with the replacement of higher yielding senior notes and capital cost
obligations  with lower  yielding  senior notes and  corporate  credit  facility
indebtedness,  interest rate hedge gains and increased  interest  capitalized on
significant  capital  projects;  and a $22.3 million  decrease in other expense,
primarily due to declines in derivative mark-to-market provisions, gas marketing
losses and bad debt expense.

       During the year ended December 31,  2002, the Company's net cash provided
by  operating  activities  decreased  to $332.2  million,  as compared to $475.6
million  during 2001 and $430.1  million  during 2000.  The decrease in net cash
provided by operating  activities  during 2002 was  primarily due to declines in
oil, NGL and gas prices as discussed above.

       During 2002,  successful  capital  investment  activities  increased  the
Company's  proved  reserves to 736.7 MMBOE,  reflecting the effects of strategic
acquisitions  of  properties  in  the  Company's  core  operating  areas  and  a
successful  drilling program which resulted in the replacement of 258 percent of
production at an acquisition and finding cost per BOE of $6.30. During the three
years ended December 31, 2002, Pioneer has replaced 210 percent of production at
an  acquisition  and finding cost per BOE of $6.24.  Costs incurred for the year
ended  December 31, 2002 totaled  $672.5  million,  including  $195.5 million of
proved and unproved property  acquisitions and $477.0 million of exploration and
development drilling and seismic expenditures.

       During the year ended December 31, 2002,  the Company purchased,  through
two transactions,  an additional 30 percent working interest in the Falcon field
development  and a 25 percent  working  interest  in  associated  acreage in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico for a combined  purchase  price of $61.1 million.  As a
result of these transactions,  the Company owns a 75 percent working interest in
and operates the Falcon field development and related  exploration  blocks. Also
during 2002,  the Company  completed the purchase of the remaining 23 percent of
the rights that the Company did not already own in its core area West  Panhandle
gas field,  100 percent of the West  Panhandle  reserves  attributable  to field
fuel, 100 percent of the related West Panhandle field  gathering  system and ten
blocks surrounding the Company's  deepwater Gulf of Mexico Falcon discovery.  In
connection  with these  transactions,  the Company  recorded  $100.4  million to
proved oil and gas  properties,  $3.8 million to unproved oil and gas properties
and $1.9 million to assets held for resale;  retired a capital  cost  obligation
for $60.8  million;  settled a $20.9 million gas balancing  receivable;  assumed
trade and environmental  obligations amounting to $5.8 million in the aggregate;
and paid $140.2 million of cash.


                                       24

<PAGE>




       See "Results of Operations" and  "Capital Commitments,  Capital Resources
and Liquidity",  below, for more  in-depth  discussions of the Company's oil and
gas  producing  activities,  including  discussions  pertaining  to oil  and gas
production  volumes,  prices,  hedging activities,  costs and expenses,  capital
commitments, capital resources and liquidity.

2003 Outlook

       Commodity  prices.   During   2001,   commodity   prices  declined   from
historically  high levels at the beginning of the year to historically  moderate
levels by year end.  World oil  prices  increased  during  2002 in  response  to
political unrest and supply disruptions in the Middle East and Venezuela. During
the third and fourth  quarters of 2002,  North  American gas prices  improved as
market  fundamentals  strengthened.  The  Company's  outlook for 2003  commodity
prices is uncertain.  Significant factors that will impact 2003 commodity prices
include the final resolution of issues  currently  impacting Iraq and Venezuela,
the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
and other oil  exporting  nations are able to manage oil supply  through  export
quotas and overall North  American gas supply and demand  fundamentals.  Pioneer
will continue to moderate its debt levels,  follow cost management  measures and
strategically  hedge  oil and gas price  risk to  mitigate  the  impact of price
volatility on its oil, NGL and gas revenues.

       As of December 31,  2002,  the Company had  hedged 22,236 barrels per day
("Bblpd") of 2003 oil production  under swap  contracts with a weighted  average
fixed  price to be  received  of $24.45 per Bbl.  The  Company  had also  hedged
230,000 Mcf per day of 2003 gas production  under swap contracts with a weighted
average fixed price to be received of $3.76 per MMBtu.  During January 2003, the
Company  increased  its 2003  commodity  hedge  positions by entering into 6,000
Bblpd of March oil swap  contracts  with average per Bbl fixed prices of $33.51.
Additionally,  at December 31, 2002 the Company has deferred oil hedge losses of
$.5 million that will be recognized as reductions to oil revenue during the last
eight  months  of 2003  and  $72.5  million  of gas  hedge  gains  that  will be
recognized  as  increases  to gas revenue  during  2003.  See Note J of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding the Company's  open
hedge  positions  at December  31,  2002.  Also see "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for disclosures about the Company's
commodity related derivative financial instruments.

       First quarter 2003.  Based on current estimates, the Company expects that
its first  quarter  worldwide  production  will average 120 to 128 MBOE per day.
Included in the mid-point of the estimate is 95 MMcf per day, net to the Company
from Canyon  Express.  First  quarter  production  costs are expected to average
$5.10 to $5.40 per BOE  based on  recent  NYMEX  strip  prices  for oil and gas.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $5.75 to
$6.00 per BOE, and total  exploration and abandonment  expense is expected to be
$20 million to $50 million. General and administrative expense is expected to be
$16 million to $17 million  during the first  quarter of 2003,  $2 million to $3
million of which relates to estimated additional performance-based  compensation
costs.  Interest expense is expected to be $24 million to $26 million.  Interest
capitalized  during the first  quarter of 2003 will be  significantly  less than
interest  capitalized  during the first three  quarters of 2002 as the Company's
largest  capital  project for which interest was being  capitalized,  the Canyon
Express  development  project,  was put into production  during  September 2002.
Additionally,  during February 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swap
contracts  to hedge a  portion  of the fair  value of its 9-5/8  percent  senior
notes.  Under the terms of the interest  rate swap  contracts,  the Company will
receive a fixed annual rate of 9-5/8 percent on $250 million notional amount and
will pay the  counterparties a variable rate on the notional amount equal to the
six-month LIBOR,  reset  semi-annually,  plus a weighted average margin of 566.4
basis  points.  Income  taxes,  principally  in  Argentina,  are  expected to be
approximately  $2 million as the Company  benefits from the  carryforward of net
operating losses in the United States and Canada.

       Production growth.  The Company  expects  that its  annual 2003 worldwide
production  will be  approximately  165 MBOE per day,  an increase of 45 percent
over 2002  levels.  The  growth  in  production  during  2003  includes  initial
production during the second quarter from the Company's deepwater Gulf of Mexico
Falcon gas project and the Sable oil project in South Africa,  coupled with peak
rates of production  from Canyon  Express and  increases in production  from the
Company's core  properties in the United States,  Argentina and Canada due to an
aggressive  development  drilling program with approximately twice as many wells
anticipated in 2003 versus 2002.

       Capital expenditures.  During 2003,  the Company's budget for oil and gas
producing  activities is expected to range from $450 million to $550 million, of
which  approximately  35 percent has been budgeted for exploration  expenditures
and 65 percent has been budgeted for  development  drilling and facility  costs.
The Company's 2003  capital budget is  allocated approximately 60 percent to the

                                       25

<PAGE>



United  States,  nine percent to Argentina  and Canada and 22 percent to Africa.
The Company's 2003 capital budget includes $35 million of remaining  development
capital to  complete  the Falcon and Devils  Tower  development  projects in the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and the  Sable oil  project  offshore  South  Africa.
Aggressive  development  drilling  programs in the Company's  core Spraberry oil
field,  Hugoton and West  Panhandle  gas fields,  the United  States Gulf Coast,
Argentina  and  Canada  will  resume  with  approximately  twice  as many  wells
anticipated  in  2003  versus  2002.   During  2003,  the  Company  has  planned
exploration drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast area, Alaska,
Canada,  Gabon,  Tunisia and South Africa.  During the years ended  December 31,
2004 and 2005, the Company expects to expend approximately $172 million and $151
million,  respectively,  of capital for development  drilling and facility costs
related to its proved undeveloped reserves.

Critical Accounting Estimates

       The Company prepares its consolidated financial  statements for inclusion
in this Report in  accordance  with  accounting  principles  that are  generally
accepted  in the United  States  ("GAAP").  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a  comprehensive  discussion of the Company's  significant  accounting
policies. GAAP represents a comprehensive set of accounting and disclosure rules
and requirements,  the application of which requires  management  judgements and
estimates including,  in certain circumstances,  choices between acceptable GAAP
alternatives.   Following  is  a  discussion  of  the  Company's  most  critical
accounting  estimates,  judgements  and  uncertainties  that are inherent in the
Company's application of GAAP:

       Accounting for oil and gas  producing activities.  The accounting for and
disclosure of oil and gas producing activities requires the Company's management
to choose between GAAP  alternatives  and to make judgements  about estimates of
future uncertainties.

       Successful  efforts  method  of  accounting.  The  Company  utilizes  the
successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing  activities as
opposed to the alternate  acceptable full cost method.  In general,  the Company
believes that, during periods of active  exploration,  net assets and net income
are  more  conservatively  measured  under  the  successful  efforts  method  of
accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method.
The critical  difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and
the full  cost  method  is as  follows:  under the  successful  efforts  method,
exploratory  dry holes and  geological  and  geophysical  exploration  costs are
charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas,  under
the full cost method of accounting,  such costs and expenses are  capitalized as
assets,  pooled  with the costs of  successful  wells and  charged  against  the
earnings of future  periods as a component  of depletion  expense.  During 2002,
2001 and 2000, the Company recognized exploration,  abandonment,  geological and
geophysical  expense  of  $85.9  million,  $127.9  million  and  $87.6  million,
respectively, under the successful efforts method.

       Proved reserve estimates.  Estimates  of the  Company's  proved  reserves
included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines.
The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

       o      the quality and quantity of available data;
       o      the interpretation of that data;
       o      the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and
       o      the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

       The Company's  proved reserve  information  included in this Report as of
December  31, 2002 was based on  evaluations  audited by  independent  petroleum
engineers  with respect to the Company's  major  properties  and prepared by the
Company's  engineers with respect to all other properties.  The Company's proved
reserve information included in this Report as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 was
based on evaluations prepared by the Company's engineers.  Estimates prepared by
other third parties may be higher or lower than those included herein.

       Because  these  estimates  depend on  many assumptions,  all of which may
substantially  differ from future  actual  results,  reserve  estimates  will be
different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately  recovered.  In
addition,  results of  drilling,  testing  and  production  after the date of an
estimate may justify material revisions to the estimate.

       The Company's  stockholders should not  assume that the present value of
future net cash flows is the current  market  value of the  Company's  estimated

                                       26

<PAGE>



proved  reserves.  In accordance  with SEC  requirements,  the Company based the
estimated  discounted  future net cash flows from proved  reserves on prices and
costs on the  date of the  estimate.  Actual  future  prices  and  costs  may be
materially  higher  or lower  than the  prices  and  costs as of the date of the
estimate.

       The Company's  estimates of  proved reserves  materially impact depletion
expense.  If the  estimates of proved  reserves  decline,  the rate at which the
Company  records  depletion  expense will increase,  reducing future net income.
Such a decline may result from lower market prices, which may make it uneconomic
to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition,  the decline in proved
reserve estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's  assessment of its oil
and gas producing properties for impairment.

       Impairment of  proved  oil and gas  properties.  The  Company reviews its
long-lived proved properties to be held and used whenever management judges that
events  or  circumstances  indicate  that  the  recorded  carrying  value of the
properties  may  not  be  recoverable.  Management  assesses  whether  or not an
impairment  provision is  necessary  based upon  management's  outlook of future
commodity  prices and net cash flows that may be  generated  by the  properties.
Proved oil and gas properties  are reviewed for  impairment by depletable  pool,
which is the lowest level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated.

       Impairment  of unproved  oil and gas properties.  Management periodically
assesses   individually   significant   unproved  oil  and  gas  properties  for
impairment,  on a  project-by-project  basis.  Management's  assessment  of  the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or expiration  of all or a portion of such projects  impact the amount and
timing of impairment provisions.

       Assessments  of   functional   currencies.    Management  determines  the
functional  currencies of the Company's  subsidiaries  based on an assessment of
the  currency  of the  economic  environment  in  which a  subsidiary  primarily
realizes and expends its operating revenues, costs and expenses. The U.S. dollar
is the  functional  currency of all of the  Company's  international  operations
except Canada.  The  assessment of functional  currencies can have a significant
impact on periodic results of operations and financial position.

       Argentine  economic  and  currency  measures.   The  accounting  for  and
remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine balance sheets as of December 31, 2002
and 2001 reflect management's assumptions regarding some uncertainties unique to
Argentina's  current  economic  situation.  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a description of the assumptions  utilized in the preparation of these
financial  statements.  The Argentine economic and political situation continues
to evolve and the Argentine  government may enact future regulations or policies
that, when finalized and adopted,  may materially impact, among other items, (i)
the realized  prices the Company  receives for the  commodities  it produces and
sells;  (ii) the timing of  repatriations  of excess cash flow to the  Company's
corporate   headquarters  in  the  United  States;  (iii)  the  Company's  asset
valuations; and (iv) peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities.

       Deferred tax  asset  valuations.  Management  periodically  assesses  the
probability of recovery of recorded  deferred tax assets based on its assessment
of future earnings outlooks by tax  jurisdiction.  Such estimates are inherently
imprecise. Many assumptions are utilized in the assessments that may prove to be
materially incorrect in the future.

New Accounting Pronouncements

       During June 2001,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")
issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 143,  "Accounting  for
Asset  Retirement  Obligations" ("SFAS  143").  SFAS  143  amends  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing Companies" ("SFAS 19") to require that the fair value of a
liability  for an asset  retirement  obligation  be  recognized in the period in
which it is incurred if a reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  Under
the provisions of SFAS 143, asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part
of the carrying value of the long-lived asset.  Under the provisions of SFAS 19,
asset retirement obligations are recognized using a cost-accumulation  approach.
The Company currently records  significant asset retirement  obligations through
the unit-of-production  method, except for such liabilities that were assumed in
business  combinations,  which were recorded at their estimated fair values. The
Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2003.

       The adoption of SFAS 143 resulted in a January 1,  2003 cumulative effect
adjustment  to record (i) a $13.8  million  increase in the  carrying  values of


                                       27

<PAGE>



proved  properties,  (ii) a $26.3 million decrease in accumulated  depreciation,
depletion,  and  amortization  of property,  plant and  equipment,  (iii) a $1.0
million  increase in current  abandonment  liabilities  and (iv) a $22.4 million
increase  in  noncurrent  abandonment  liabilities.  The net impact of items (i)
through (iv) was to record a gain of $16.7 million,  net of tax, as a cumulative
effect  adjustment  of  a  change  in  accounting  principle  in  the  Company's
consolidated statements of operations upon adoption on January 1, 2003.

       During April 2002,  the FASB  issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of
FASB  Statement No. 13 and  Technical  Corrections"  ("SFAS 145").  Prior to the
adoption  of  the  provisions  of  SFAS  145,  gains  or  losses  on  the  early
extinguishment  of debt were required to be  classified in a company's  periodic
consolidated  statements of operations as extraordinary  gains or losses, net of
associated  income  taxes,  after  the  determination  of  income  or loss  from
continuing  operations.  SFAS 145  requires,  except  in the case of  events  or
transactions of a highly unusual and infrequent nature, gains or losses from the
early  extinguishment  of debt to be  classified  as  components  of a company's
income or loss from continuing operations. The Company adopted the provisions of
SFAS 145 on January 1, 2003.  The adoption of the  provisions of SFAS 145 is not
expected to affect the Company's  future financial  position or liquidity.  Upon
adoption  of the  provisions  of SFAS  145,  gains  or  losses  from  the  early
extinguishment  of debt recognized in the Company's  consolidated  statements of
operations  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001 and  2000  will be
reclassified   to  other   revenues  or  other   expense  and  included  in  the
determination of the income (loss) from continuing operations of those periods.

Results of Operations

       Oil and gas revenues. Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $701.8
million  during  2002,  as  compared  to $847.0  million  during 2001 and $852.7
million during 2000,  representing a 17 percent  decrease from 2001 to 2002. The
revenue  decrease from 2001 to 2002 was due to  year-on-year  worldwide  average
gas,  NGL and oil price  declines  of 23 percent,  19 percent and five  percent,
respectively,  including the effects of gas and oil price  hedges;  and an eight
percent  decline in worldwide  oil  production,  offset by worldwide NGL and gas
production increases of four percent and two percent,  respectively. The revenue
decrease from 2000 to 2001 was due to a four percent  decline in BOE  production
and a 15 percent decline in NGL price, partially offset by a 15 percent increase
in gas price,  including  the effects of gas hedges.  The declines in 2001 sales
volumes were primarily attributable to normal well production declines.


                                       28

<PAGE>



       The following  table provides  production and  price data relevant to the
analysis of the Company's revenues from oil and gas operations:
<TABLE>
                                                            Year ended December 31,
                                                        ------------------------------
                                                          2002       2001       2000
                                                        --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>
   Production:
     Oil (MBbls)...................................       11,514     12,498     12,535
     NGLs (MBbls)..................................        8,086      7,800      8,379
     Gas (MMcf)....................................      131,015    127,865    135,843
     Total (MBOE)..................................       41,436     41,609     43,555
   Average daily production:
     Oil (Bbls)....................................       31,545     34,241     34,249
     NGLs (Bbls)...................................       22,154     21,370     22,894
     Gas (Mcf).....................................      358,945    350,314    371,157
     Total (BOE)...................................      113,524    113,997    119,002
   Average reported prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States...............................     $  23.66   $  24.34   $  22.07
       Argentina...................................     $  20.63   $  23.79   $  29.09
       Canada......................................     $  22.26   $  21.87   $  27.50
       Worldwide...................................     $  22.89   $  24.12   $  24.01
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States...............................     $  13.77   $  16.88   $  20.05
       Argentina...................................     $  14.56   $  19.29   $  22.91
       Canada......................................     $  16.77   $  21.11   $  24.32
       Worldwide...................................     $  13.92   $  17.14   $  20.27
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States...............................     $   3.16   $   4.10   $   3.50
       Argentina...................................     $    .48   $   1.31   $   1.19
       Canada......................................     $   2.50   $   2.86   $   2.88
       Worldwide...................................     $   2.49   $   3.23   $   2.81
     Annual percentage increase (decrease) in
      average worldwide reported prices:
       Oil.........................................           (5)       -           56
       NGL.........................................          (19)       (15)        74
       Gas.........................................          (23)        15         48
</TABLE>

       Hedging activities.  The  commodity  prices that the  Company reports are
based on the market price received for the  commodities  adjusted by the results
of the Company's hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity  derivative
contracts  (swaps  and  collars)  in order to (i)  reduce  the  effect  of price
volatility on the commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the
Company's  annual  capital  budgeting  and  expenditure  plans and (iii)  reduce
commodity price risk associated  with certain  capital  projects.  The effective
portions of changes in the fair values of the  Company's  commodity  price hedge
derivatives are deferred as increases or decreases to stockholders' equity until
the underlying hedged transaction occurs. Consequently, changes in the effective
portions of commodity  price hedge  derivatives  add volatility to the Company's
reported   stockholders'  equity  until  the  hedge  derivative  matures  or  is
terminated. See Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information concerning
the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2002, 2001 and 2000 from the Company's
hedging activities,  the Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2002 and
descriptions of the Company's hedge and non-hedge  commodity  derivatives.  Also
see "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for
additional disclosure about the Company's commodity related derivative financial
instruments.

       Interest and other revenue.  The  Company  recorded  interest  and  other
income  totaling  $11.2 million,  $21.8 million and $25.8 during 2002,  2001 and
2000,  respectively.  The  Company's  interest and other income was comprised of
revenue that was not directly  attributable to oil and gas producing  activities
or oil and gas  property  divestitures.  See  Note L of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding interest and other income.


                                       29

<PAGE>



       Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.  During the year ended December 31,
2002,  the  Company   realized  $118.9  million  of  cash  proceeds  from  asset
divestitures and, associated therewith,  recorded net gains of $4.4 million. The
proceeds derived from asset divestitures during 2002 included $91.3 million from
the  early  termination  of  hedge  derivatives,  $20.9  million  from  the cash
settlement of a gas balancing receivable,  $4.7 million from the sale of certain
gas  properties  located in  Oklahoma  and $2.0  million  from the sale of other
corporate  assets.  The Company recorded a gain of $2.8 million  associated with
the sale of the gas  properties  in Oklahoma and a gain of $1.6 million from the
sale of other corporate assets. The proceeds from the early termination of hedge
derivatives represent deferred hedge gains and losses that will be recognized as
increases  or  decreases  to future  interest  expenses  or  future  oil and gas
revenues.  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  regarding
the amortization of deferred hedge gains and losses.

       During the year ended  December 31,  2001,  the  Company  realized $113.5
million of cash  proceeds from asset  divestitures  and,  associated  therewith,
recorded net gains of $7.7 million. The proceeds derived from asset divestitures
during   2001 included  $85.4  million  from  the  early  termination  of  hedge
derivatives,  $12.7 million from the sale of the Company's remaining holdings in
the common  stock of a  non-affiliated  entity,  $12.0  million from the sale of
certain  oil  properties  in  Canada  and  $3.4  million  from the sale of other
corporate  assets.  The Company recorded a gain of $8.1 million from the sale of
the remaining holdings in the common stock of the non-affiliated  entity, a loss
of $1.1  million  from  the  sales of oil and gas  properties  and a gain of $.7
million from the sale of other corporate assets.

       During 2000,  the Company completed the divestiture of certain assets for
proceeds of $102.7 million.  Associated  therewith,  the Company  recorded a net
gain on disposition of assets of $34.2 million.  The 2000 divestitures  included
the sale of common  stock of a  non-affiliated  entity for net proceeds of $59.7
million,  from which the Company  recognized a gain on  disposition of assets of
$34.3  million.  The Company also sold certain oil and gas producing  properties
and other  assets  during  2000 for  proceeds of $43.0  million,  from which the
Company recognized a loss on disposition of assets of $.1 million.

       The net cash proceeds from asset divestitures during 2002,  2001 and 2000
were used,  together with net cash flows  provided by operating  activities,  to
fund additions to oil and gas properties and to reduce outstanding indebtedness.
See Note M of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  additional   information
regarding asset divestitures.

       Production costs.  Total production  costs per  BOE  decreased in 2002 by
four percent and increased in 2001 by 16 percent.  In general,  lease  operating
expenses and workover expenses represent the components of production costs over
which the Company has management  control,  while  production  taxes, ad valorem
taxes and field fuel expenses are directly  related to commodity  price changes.
The decrease in  production  costs during 2002 was primarily due to decreases in
field fuel  expense and  production  taxes as a result of lower  North  American
average gas prices and lower Argentine lease operating  expenses  resulting from
lower  Argentine  expenses  on  a  U.S.  dollar  equivalent  basis  due  to  the
devaluation of the Argentine peso versus the U.S.  dollar,  partially  offset by
moderately higher workover expenses,  ad valorem taxes (which are computed using
prior year average annual commodity  prices) and declines in the third party gas
processing  and  treating  margin  component  of lease  operating  expense.  The
increase in production costs during 2001 was primarily due to increases in field
fuel expense as a result of higher North American average gas prices,  higher ad
valorem  taxes and to declines in the third party gas  processing  and  treating
margin component of lease operating  expenses.  The following table provides the
components of the Company's production costs during the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000:
<TABLE>
                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                            -------------------------------
                                              2002        2001       2000
                                            -------     -------     -------
                                                       (per BOE)

<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
     Lease operating expenses............   $  2.87     $  2.76     $  2.42
     Taxes:
       Production........................       .54         .74         .77
       Ad valorem .......................       .54         .49         .29
     Field fuel expenses.................       .62         .88         .71
     Workover expenses...................       .25         .17         .15
                                             ------      ------      ------
           Total production costs........   $  4.82     $  5.04     $  4.34
                                             ======      ======      ======
</TABLE>


                                       30

<PAGE>




       Depletion,  depreciation and  amortization expense.  The  Company's total
depletion,  depreciation and amortization  expense per BOE was $5.22,  $5.35 and
$4.93  for the years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001 and 2000,  respectively.
Depletion  expense,  the  largest  component  of  depletion,   depreciation  and
amortization, was $5.01, $5.02 and $4.57 per BOE during the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,  respectively,  and  depreciation  and  amortization of
other property and equipment was $.21,  $.33 and $.36 per BOE during each of the
respective  years.  The  decrease  in  depreciation  and  amortization  of other
property  and  equipment  during  2002  was  primarily  comprised  of  decreases
associated with fully amortized information  technology assets. During 2001, the
increase in per BOE depletion expense was primarily associated with decreases in
United  States  production,  which had a lower cost basis  relative  to combined
Argentine and Canadian per BOE cost basis,  and to downward  revisions to proved
reserves as a result of lower commodity prices.

       Exploration, abandonments, geological and geophysical costs. Exploration,
abandonments,  geological and  geophysical  costs totaled $85.9 million,  $127.9
million and $87.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2002,  2001 and 2000,
respectively.  The  following  table sets forth the  components of the Company's
2002,  2001 and 2000  exploration  and  abandonments/geological  and geophysical
costs:
<TABLE>

                                                  United                                Other
                                                  States      Argentina     Canada     Foreign     Total
                                                 --------     ---------    --------    --------   --------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>
    Year Ended December 31, 2002:
      Geological and geophysical costs........   $ 22,761     $  4,138     $  3,544    $  7,223   $ 37,666
      Exploratory dry holes...................     32,557        3,294        1,220        (539)    36,532
      Leasehold abandonments and other........      7,637        2,874        1,077         108     11,696
                                                  -------      -------      -------     -------    -------
                                                 $ 62,955     $ 10,306     $  5,841    $  6,792   $ 85,894
                                                  =======      =======      =======     =======    =======
    Year Ended December 31, 2001:
      Geological and geophysical costs........   $ 29,620     $  6,541     $  2,373    $ 13,678   $ 52,212
      Exploratory dry holes...................     34,883        6,040        5,473      10,432     56,828
      Leasehold abandonments and other........      5,546       11,276        2,036           8     18,866
                                                  -------      -------      -------     -------    -------
                                                 $ 70,049     $ 23,857     $  9,882    $ 24,118   $127,906
                                                  =======      =======      =======     =======    =======
    Year Ended December 31, 2000:
      Geological and geophysical costs........   $ 22,033     $  6,881     $  2,273    $  7,761   $ 38,948
      Exploratory dry holes...................     11,745        6,987          887       8,396     28,015
      Leasehold abandonments and other........      7,089       11,520        1,971           7     20,587
                                                  -------      -------      -------     -------    -------
                                                 $ 40,867     $ 25,388     $  5,131    $ 16,164   $ 87,550
                                                  =======      =======      =======     =======    =======
</TABLE>

       The   decrease  in   2002  exploration,   abandonments,   geological  and
geophysical costs reflected a decline in Argentine exploration activities as the
Company  monitored and assessed the economic  environment  and risks  associated
with  Argentina;   a  decline  in  exploratory  dry  holes  and  geological  and
geophysical costs in Africa,  as the Company assessed its exploratory  successes
in Gabon and Tunisia; and the allocation of a larger percentage of the Company's
2002 capital  budget to the  development of its  significant  discoveries in the
Gulf of Mexico and  offshore  South  Africa.  The  increase in 2001  exploration
costs,  as compared to 2000,  was  primarily  due to  increased  geological  and
geophysical  costs  that were  supportive  of  exploratory  drilling,  increased
exploratory  drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and Argentina and an exploratory dry
hole drilled in Tunisia.  Approximately  20 percent of the Company's  2002 costs
incurred for oil and gas producing activities were exploration costs as compared
to 34 percent in 2001 and 38 percent in 2000.

       General  and   administrative  expenses.    The   Company's  general  and
administrative  expenses  totaled $48.4 million  ($1.17 per BOE),  $37.0 million
($.89 per BOE) and $33.3 million ($.76 per BOE) during the years ended  December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,  respectively.  The increase in administrative  expense
during  2002 as  compared  to  2001  was  primarily  due to the  elimination  of
operating   overhead   being  charged  by  the  Company  to  the  42  affiliated
partnerships  that were merged  into a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company
during  December 2001 (see "Financial and Operating  Performance"  and Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the 2001
merger). Additionally, the Company awarded 645,445 shares of restricted stock to
directors,  officers  and key  employees as part of the  Company's  compensation
program. The Company recorded $16.2 million of deferred compensation  associated
with the restricted stock awards, which amount will be amortized to compensation
expense during the vesting  periods of the awards.  Amortization of the deferred
costs of the restricted stock increased general and  administrative  expenses by
$1.9 million in 2002. See Note G of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in   "Item  8.   Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for

                                       31

<PAGE>



information regarding the restricted stock awards and their vesting periods. The
increase in general and administrative expense during 2001, as compared to 2000,
was primarily due to an increase in compensation expense.

         Interest expense.  Interest expense was  $95.8 million,  $132.0 million
and  $162.0  million  for the years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001 and 2000,
respectively.  The decline in 2002  interest  expense as  compared to 2001,  was
primarily  due to  incremental  interest  savings  of  $18.0  million  from  the
Company's  interest rate hedging  program;  a $6.3 million  increase in interest
capitalized;  interest savings from the retirement of the Company's  outstanding
11-5/8  percent and 10-5/8 percent  senior  subordinated  notes during the third
quarter of 2001 and $38.7 million of the  Company's  9-5/8 percent  senior notes
during the fourth quarter of 2001; interest savings from the repurchase of $47.1
million of 9-5/8 percent  senior notes and $13.9 million of 8-7/8 percent senior
notes during 2002; interest savings from the repayment of the $45.2 million West
Panhandle  gas field  capital  obligation in July 2002 which bore interest at an
annual rate of 20 percent;  and interest  savings from  reductions in underlying
market interest rates.  The decrease in interest expense for 2001 as compared to
2000 was primarily due to incremental  interest savings of $7.0 million from the
Company's  interest rate hedging  program;  a $6.0 million  increase in interest
capitalized;  and  interest  savings  associated  with  the  redemption  of  the
Company's  outstanding  11-5/8 percent and 10-5/8  percent  senior  subordinated
notes and $38.7 million of the Company's 9-5/8 percent senior notes.

       As is  discussed in  "2003  Outlook"  above,  capitalized  interest  will
decline during 2003, as compared to 2002 levels, primarily due to the completion
of the  Canyon  Express  development  project  during  September  2002  and  the
anticipated  completion of the Falcon and Sable development  projects during the
second quarter of 2003. Additionally,  2003 interest expense will be impacted by
fair  value  hedges  of the  Company's  9-5/8  percent  senior  notes  that were
initiated  by the  Company  during  February  2003 and for which  more  detailed
information  is provided in "2003  Outlook"  and in "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk". See Note E of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional  information about the Company's  long-term debt,  interest
expense and extraordinary items.

       Other expenses.  Other  expenses  were  $17.3  million  during  2002,  as
compared to $39.6  million  during 2001 and $67.2  million  during  2000.  Other
expenses during 2002 were primarily  comprised of a $6.9 million charge from the
remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine  peso-denominated  net monetary assets
and liabilities  and $2.5 million of marketing  losses incurred to transport and
sell purchased  Canadian gas to a Chicago,  Illinois sales point. See Note B and
Note I of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in "Item 8.
Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  additional   information
regarding currency remeasurement and gas transportation commitments.

       Other expenses in  2001  include  $11.4  million of  commodity derivative
settlements  that  did not  qualify  for  hedge  treatment  under  Statement  of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging Activities";  $9.9 million of marketing losses incurred to transport
and sell purchased Canadian gas to a Chicago, Illinois sales point; $7.7 million
of losses from the remeasurement of the Company's Argentine peso-denominated net
monetary  assets and an  adjustment  to reduce the  carrying  value of Argentine
lease and well  equipment  inventory to market  value;  $6.0 million of bad debt
expense related to derivative  contracts with Enron North America Corp. and $4.6
million of other expenses.

       The primary  component of other  expense during 2000 was $58.5 million of
mark-to-market  losses on  derivative  contracts  that did not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment,  including $43.9 million of losses on derivative contracts
that  matured  during  2000 and  $14.6  million  of losses  associated  with the
Company's Btu swap  agreements  that mature at the end of December 2004.  During
2001, the Company  entered into  offsetting  swap  agreements that had fixed the
prices  that are to be  received  and  paid by the  Company  under  the Btu swap
agreements.  Consequently,  the Btu swap  agreements are no longer  sensitive to
changes in oil or gas commodity prices.

       Income tax provisions (benefits).  The  Company  recognized  consolidated
income tax  provisions  of $5.1 million and $4.0  million  during 2002 and 2001,
respectively, and a consolidated income tax benefit of $6.0 million during 2000.
The Company's  consolidated  tax provision for the year ended  December 31, 2002
was  comprised  of current U.S.  state and local taxes of $.2  million,  current
foreign  taxes of $2.1  million  and  deferred  foreign tax  provisions  of $2.8
million.  The Company's  consolidated  tax provision for the year ended December
31, 2001 was  comprised of current U.S.  state and local taxes of $1.1  million,
current foreign taxes of $10.5 million and deferred foreign tax benefits of $7.6
million. The Company's consolidated tax benefit in 2000 was comprised of a $10.6
million  deferred tax benefit in Argentina,  partially offset by $4.6 million of
current taxes paid in Argentina.

                                       32

<PAGE>



       Due to uncertainties  regarding the  Company's ability to realize certain
of its net operating loss  carryovers and tax credit  carryovers  prior to their
scheduled  expirations,  the Company has  established  a valuation  allowance of
$277.2 million  against those  carryovers.  Although the Company  believes it is
more likely than not that the  carrying  values of its  remaining  deferred  tax
assets will be realized  through  future  taxable  earnings or  alternative  tax
planning strategies, the net deferred tax assets could be reduced further if the
Company's estimate of taxable income in future periods is significantly  reduced
or alternative tax planning strategies are no longer viable. As a result of this
situation,  it is likely that the  Company's  effective tax rate in 2003 will be
minimal  in the  United  States  and  Canada  and  approximately  35  percent in
Argentina.  See Note O of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  regarding
the  Company's  income  tax,  deferred  tax  asset  valuation  reserves  and net
operating loss carryforward expirations.

       Extraordinary items.  During 2002,  the Company repurchased $47.1 million
of its 9-5/8  percent  senior notes,  $13.9 million of its 8-7/8 percent  senior
notes and repaid a $45.2 million West Panhandle  field capital cost  obligation.
Associated  with  the 2002  debt  extinguishments,  the  Company  recognized  an
extraordinary  loss, net of taxes,  of $22.3  million.  During 2001, the Company
redeemed the remaining  $22.5 million of its  outstanding  11-5/8 percent senior
subordinated  notes,  $6.8  million of its  outstanding  10-5/8  percent  senior
subordinated  notes and  repurchased  $38.7 million of its 9-5/8 percent  senior
notes.  Associated with these debt  extinguishments,  the Company  recognized an
extraordinary  loss,  net of taxes,  of $3.8 million.  During 2000,  the Company
replaced  its prior  credit  facility,  which was  scheduled to mature in August
2002, with a new $575 million  corporate  credit facility due March 1, 2005 (the
"Credit  Agreement").  Associated  therewith,  the  Company  recognized  a $12.3
million  extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt. See "New Accounting
Pronouncements",   above,  for  information  regarding  future  changes  in  the
classification of the Company's extraordinary gains and losses.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

       Capital  commitments.  The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of  contractual  obligations  and  working  capital  obligations.   Funding  for
exploration,  development  and  acquisitions  of  oil  and  gas  properties  and
repayment  of  contractual  obligations  may be provided by any  combination  of
internally-generated  cash flow,  proceeds from the disposition of non-strategic
assets or  alternative  financing  sources as discussed  in "Capital  resources"
below.  Funding for the Company's  working  capital  obligations  is provided by
internally-generated cash flow.

       Oil and gas properties.  The Company's cash expenditures for additions to
oil and gas properties during 2002, 2001 and 2000 totaled $614.7 million, $529.7
million and $299.7 million,  respectively.  The Company's 2002  expenditures for
additions to oil and gas  properties  were funded by $332.2  million of net cash
provided  by  operating   activities,   $118.9  million  of  proceeds  from  the
disposition  of assets and a portion of the  proceeds  from the issuance of 11.5
million  shares of the Company's  common stock during April 2002.  The Company's
2001  expenditures were internally funded by $475.6 million of net cash provided
by  operating  activities  and a portion  of the  Company's  $113.5  million  of
proceeds from  disposition of assets.  The Company's  2000 capital  expenditures
were internally funded by net cash provided by operating activities.

       The Company strives to  maintain its indebtedness at reasonable levels in
order to provide  sufficient  financial  flexibility to take advantage of future
opportunities.  The Company's  capital budget for 2003 is expected to range from
$450 million to $550  million.  The Company  believes  that net cash provided by
operating  activities  during 2003 will be  sufficient  to fund the 2003 capital
expenditures budget.

       Contractual obligations,  including  off-balance  sheet obligations.  The
Company's contractual  obligations include long-term debt, operating leases, Btu
swap agreements,  terminated commodity hedges and other contracts.  From time to
time, the Company enters into  off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions
that can give rise to material off- balance sheet obligations of the Company. As
of  December  31,  2002,  the  material   off-balance  sheet   arrangements  and
transactions  that the  Company has entered  into  include (i) $27.2  million of
undrawn  letters of credit  issued under the  Company's  $575 million  corporate
credit  facility and (ii) operating lease  agreements  under which the Company's
future minimum lease commitments are summarized in the table below and in Note I
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data".  Contractual  obligations  for  which the
ultimate  settlement  amounts are not fixed and determinable  include derivative
contracts  that are sensitive to future  changes in commodity  prices,  currency
exchange rates and interest rates and gas transportation commitments.  See "Item

                                       33

<PAGE>



7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" for a table of
changes  in the fair  value of the  Company's  derivative  contract  assets  and
liabilities  during  the year  ended  December  31,  2002 and Note I of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding gas  transportation
commitments. The following table summarizes the Company's payments due by period
for fixed and determinable contractual obligations:
<TABLE>
                                                         Payments Due by Year
                                      ------------------------------------------------------------
                                         2003        2004        2005     2006-2007    Thereafter
                                      ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ------------
                                                            (in thousands)

<S>                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
   Long-term debt (a).............    $     -     $     -     $ 406,704   $ 161,130    $1,100,702
   Operating leases (b)...........       19,364      41,553      39,375      58,924        36,338
   Btu swap agreements (c)........        7,168       7,190         -           -             -
   Terminated commodity hedges....          484         340         -           -             -
                                       --------    --------    --------    --------     ---------

                                      $  27,016   $  49,083   $ 446,079   $ 220,054    $1,137,040
                                       ========    ========    ========    ========     =========
<FN>
- ------------
(a)  See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(b)  See Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(c)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Capital resources.  The Company's  primary capital  resources  are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 2003.

     Operating activities.  Net cash  provided by  operating  activities  during
2002,  2001 and 2000 were $332.2  million,  $475.6  million and $430.1  million,
respectively.  Net cash provided by operating  activities  in 2002  decreased by
$143.4 million, or 30 percent, as compared to that of 2001. The decrease in 2002
net cash provided by operating  activities  was  principally  due to declines in
commodity  prices,  offset partially by declines in interest  expense.  Net cash
provided by  operating  activities  in 2001  increased by $45.5  million,  or 11
percent,  as compared to that of 2000. The increase in 2001 was primarily due to
higher commodity prices as compared to 2000, declines in interest expense and an
increase in trade receivable collections.

     Financing  activities.  During  the  year  ended  December  31,  2002,  the
Company's  financing  activities  provided $170.9 million of cash,  comprised of
$236.0 million of proceeds, net of issuance costs, from the sale of 11.5 million
shares of the  Company's  common  stock;  $48.0  million  of net  borrowings  of
long-term  debt;  and $14.4  million of proceeds  from the exercise of long-term
incentive plan stock options and employee stock purchases.  Partially offsetting
these cash proceeds from financing activities were $124.2 million of payments of
noncurrent  liabilities  and $3.3 million of debt issuance costs during 2002. In
contrast,  during the years ended  December 31, 2001 and 2000,  the Company used
$64.0  million  and  $244.1  million,  respectively,  of net  cash in  financing
activities.  During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company used
$5.1 million and $177.3 million of cash, respectively,  to repay long-term debt;
$53.4 million and $29.8 million,  respectively, to repay noncurrent liabilities;
$13.0 million and $27.3 million,  respectively, to purchase treasury stock; and,
during the year ended  December 31, 2000,  $13.8  million for deferred  loan and
debt issuance costs. Partially offsetting the above described net cash uses from
financing  activities  were $7.5 million and $4.2  million of net cash  provided
from the exercise of long-term  incentive  plan stock options and employee stock
purchases during the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     Over the three year period ended December 31,  2002,  the  Company has used
$134.4  million  of cash for net  reductions  in  long-term  borrowings  and has
reduced  its ratio of debt to book  capitalization  to 55 percent as of December
31, 2002, from 69 percent as of December 31, 1999. Additionally, the Company has
entered  into  financing  transactions  with the intent of reducing its costs of
capital and increasing liquidity through the extension of debt maturities.

     During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company entered into
interest rate swap contracts to hedge the fair value of its 6-1/2 percent senior
notes,  its 8-7/8 percent senior notes and its 8-1/4 percent  senior notes.  The
Company also entered into interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of its interest
rate risk under the Credit Agreement.  In 2002 and 2001, the Company  terminated
its open interest rate swap portfolios to lock in the substantial  fair value of
the  derivatives.  As of December  31,  2002,  the Company had $35.7  million of


                                       34

<PAGE>



deferred gains associated with the interest rate swap  terminations  recorded as
an increase in the carrying value of the Company's  long-term  debt.  During the
years ended  December  31,  2002,  2001 and 2000,  net gains from the  Company's
interest rate swaps have reduced interest expense by $25.3 million, $7.3 million
and $.3 million,  respectively.  See Note J of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplemental Data" and
"Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" for more
information about the Company's interest rate hedging activities.

     As is further described in  "Results of Operations" above,  during the year
ended  December 31, 2002,  the Company  repurchased  $47.1  million of its 9-5/8
percent senior notes, $13.9 million of its 8-7/8 percent senior notes and repaid
a $45.2 million West Panhandle gas field capital cost obligation.  Additionally,
during the year ended  December 31,  2001,  the Company  redeemed its  remaining
11-5/8 percent and 10-5/8 percent senior subordinated notes and $38.7 million of
its 9-5/8 percent senior notes.

     At December 31,  2002,  the Company had a  $575.0 million  corporate credit
facility  with a syndicate of banks that  matures on March 1, 2005.  Outstanding
borrowings  under the corporate  credit  facility  totaled  $260.0 million as of
December 31, 2002.  In addition,  the Company has five  outstanding  senior note
issuances  at  December  31,  2002.  Such debt  issuances  consist of (i) $136.1
million  aggregate  principal  amount of 8-7/8 percent senior notes due in 2005;
(ii) $150 million  aggregate  principal amount of 8-1/4 percent senior notes due
in 2007; (iii) $350 million  aggregate  principal amount of 6-1/2 percent senior
notes due in 2008; (iv) $339.2 million aggregate  remaining  principal amount of
9-5/8 percent  senior notes due in 2010;  (v) $150 million  aggregate  principal
amount  of 7-1/2  percent  senior  notes  due in 2012;  and  (vi)  $250  million
aggregate principal amount of 7-1/5 percent senior notes due in 2028. Certain of
the obligations above contain restrictive  covenants,  each of which the Company
is in compliance.

     The weighted average  interest rate on the  Company's  indebtedness for the
year ended  December  31, 2002 was 5.74  percent as compared to 7.52 percent for
the year ended  December 31, 2001 and 8.68  percent for the year ended  December
31, 2000,  taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.  See Note E of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" for more specific  information  regarding the
Company's long-term debt as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.

     As the Company  pursues  its strategy,  it may  utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Company's Board of Directors.

       Sales of non-strategic assets.  During 2002, 2001 and 2000, proceeds from
the sale of  non-strategic  assets  totaled $118.9  million,  $113.5 million and
$102.7  million,   respectively.   The  Company's  2002,  2001  and  2000  asset
divestitures   were   comprised  of  hedge   derivatives,   common  stock  of  a
non-affiliated  entity, and non-strategic United States and Canadian oil and gas
properties,  gas plants and other assets.  The cash proceeds received from asset
divestitures  during 2002 and 2001 were used to fund a portion of the  Company's
2002 and 2001 capital  expenditures and for general corporate  obligations.  The
net cash  proceeds  from the 2000  asset  divestitures  were used to reduce  the
Company's outstanding indebtedness (see "Results of Operations", above, and Note
M of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Book capitalization  and liquidity.  The Company's  total debt was  $1.67
billion as of December 31, 2002,  as compared to total debt of $1.58  billion on
December 31, 2001 and 2000. The Company's total book  capitalization at December
31,  2002 was $3.04  billion,  consisting  of total  debt of $1.67  billion  and
stockholders'   equity  of  $1.37   billion.   The   Company's   debt  to  total
capitalization  was 55 percent at December  31,  2002.  The  Company's  ratio of
current assets to current  liabilities  was .54 at December 31, 2002 and 1.12 at
December  31,  2001.  The decline in the  Company's  ratio of current  assets to
current liabilities was primarily due to a $170.7 million difference in the fair
value of 2003 maturing  derivatives at December 31, 2002 as compared to the fair
value of 2002 maturing derivatives at December 31, 2001. Including $27.2 million
of undrawn and outstanding  letters of credit, the Company has $287.8 million of
unused  borrowing  capacity  available under its Credit Agreement as of December
31, 2002.


                                       35

<PAGE>



ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

       The following quantitative and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2002
and 2001,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates or commodity  prices.
Although  certain  derivative  contracts  that the  Company is a party to do not
qualify as hedges, the Company does not enter into derivative or other financial
instruments for trading purposes.

       The fair value of the Company's derivative contracts are determined based
on  counterparties'  estimates and valuation models. The Company has not changed
its  valuation  method  during  2002.  During  2002,  the Company was a party to
forward foreign exchange  contracts,  commodity and interest rate swap contracts
and commodity collar  contracts.  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
additional  information regarding the Company's derivative contracts,  including
deferred  gains and losses on  terminated  derivative  contracts.  The following
table  reconciles  the changes that occurred in the fair values of the Company's
open derivative contracts during 2002:
<TABLE>
                                                       Derivative Contract Assets (Liabilities)
                                                  --------------------------------------------------
                                                                              Foreign
                                                                 Interest     Exchange
                                                  Commodity        Rate         Rate        Total
                                                  ----------     --------     --------     ---------
                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
     Fair value of contracts outstanding
         as of December 31, 2001..............    $ 180,554     $ (19,637)     $   61      $ 160,978
     Changes in contract fair values (1)......     (183,285)       62,786         203       (120,296)
     Contract realizations:
         Maturities...........................      (48,212)      (11,155)       (249)       (59,616)
         Termination - cash settlements.......      (58,685)      (31,994)        -          (90,679)
         Termination - future obligations.....        1,303           -           -            1,303
         Termination - future receivables.....         (479)          -           -             (479)
                                                   --------      --------       -----       --------
     Fair value of contracts outstanding
         as of December 31, 2002..............    $(108,804)    $     -        $   15      $(108,789)
                                                   ========      ========       =====       ========
<FN>
- ---------------
(1)  At inception,  new derivative contracts entered into by the Company have no
     intrinsic value.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Quantitative Disclosures

       Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide information,  in
U. S. dollar  equivalent  amounts,  about other financial  instruments  that the
Company  was a party to as of  December  31,  2002 and 2001 and that are or were
sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the tables present
maturities  by  expected  maturity  dates  together  with the  weighted  average
interest rates expected to be paid on the debt, given current  contractual terms
and market  conditions.  For fixed rate debt, the weighted average interest rate
represents  the  contractual  fixed  rates that the  Company  was  obligated  to
periodically pay on the debt as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. For variable rate
debt, the average  interest rate  represents the average rates being paid on the
debt  projected  forward  proportionate  to the  forward  yield  curves  for the
six-month London Interbank Offered Rate.


                                       36

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
     Derivative and Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002 (1)

                                                                                                                 Liability
                                  2003       2004       2005       2006       2007     Thereafter      Total     Fair Value
                                --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                          (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
    maturities:
   Fixed rate debt............  $    -     $    -     $146,704   $    -     $161,130   $1,100,702   $1,408,536   $(1,484,009)
   Weighted average
     interest rate (%)........      7.94       7.94       7.87       7.83       7.81         7.77
   Variable rate debt.........  $    -     $    -     $260,000   $    -     $    -     $      -     $  260,000   $  (260,000)
   Average interest rate (%)..      2.89       4.08       5.27
<FN>
- ------------
(1)  During February 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts
     to hedge a portion of the fair  value of its 9-5/8  percent  senior  notes.
     Under the terms of the  interest  rate swap  contracts,  the  Company  will
     receive a fixed  annual  rate of 9-5/8  percent  on $250  million  notional
     amount  and will pay the  counterparties  a variable  rate on the  notional
     amount equal to the six-month LIBOR, reset semi- annually,  plus a weighted
     average margin of 566.4 basis points.
</FN>
</TABLE>

      The accompanying  Interest Rate  Sensitivity table as of December 31, 2001
also provides  information  about interest rate swap agreements that the Company
was a party  to as of that  date.  These  interest  rate  swap  agreements  were
terminated  during  the year ended  December  31,  2002 and no longer  represent
market risk to the Company. The interest rate swap agreements as of December 31,
2001 hedged (i) the fair value of the Company's 8-1/4 percent senior notes; (ii)
the fair value of the Company's 6-1/2 percent senior notes;  and (iii) a portion
of the interest rate risk associated with the Company's Credit Agreement.
<TABLE>

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative and Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001

                                                                                                                  Liability
                                   2002       2003       2004       2005       2006     Thereafter      Total     Fair Value
                                 --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                           (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
 U.S. dollar denominated
  maturities:
    Fixed rate debt............  $     -    $     -    $     -    $161,998   $    -      $1,121,306  $1,283,304   $(1,268,178)
    Weighted average
      interest rate (%)........      8.06       8.06       8.06       7.98       7.95          7.95
    Variable rate debt.........  $     -    $     -    $     -    $294,000   $    -      $      -    $  294,000   $  (294,000)
    Average interest rates (%).      4.38       6.12       6.90       7.27

Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives:
 8-1/4% senior notes hedge:
    Notional debt amount.......  $150,000   $150,000   $150,000   $150,000   $150,000    $  150,000  $  150,000   $    (2,965)
    Fixed rate receivable (%)..      8.25       8.25       8.25       8.25       8.25          8.25
    Variable rate payable (%)..      6.50       8.24       9.02       9.39       9.64          9.79
 6-1/2% senior notes hedge:
    Notional debt amount.......  $350,000   $350,000   $350,000   $350,000   $350,000    $  350,000  $  350,000   $   (16,229)
    Fixed rate receivable (%)..      6.50       6.50       6.50       6.50       6.50          6.50
    Variable rate payable (%)..      5.15       6.89       7.67       8.04       8.29          8.44
 Credit Agreement hedge:
    Notional debt amount.......  $ 55,000                                                            $   55,000   $      (443)
    Fixed rate payable (%).....      5.43
    Variable rate
       receivable (%)..........      4.38
</TABLE>


                                       37

<PAGE>



       Foreign  exchange  rate   sensitivity.   The  following  tables   provide
information,  in U.S. dollar  equivalent  amounts,  about  derivative  financial
instruments that the Company was a party to as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and
that were sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates.
<TABLE>

                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative and Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002

                                                                                     Asset
                                                          2003       Total       Fair Value (1)
                                                        --------    --------     --------------
                                                          (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                                                     <C>         <C>          <C>
Foreign Exchange Rate Hedge Derivatives:
    Notional amount of foreign
     currency forward contracts....................     $  2,000    $  2,000        $   15
    Fixed Canadian to U.S. dollar rate paid........        .6258
<FN>
- --------------
(1)  The Company's  foreign  currency forward contract matured as a $15 thousand
     asset during January 2003.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<TABLE>

                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative and Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001

                                                                                   Asset
                                                          2002       Total       Fair Value
                                                        --------    --------     ----------
                                                        (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                                                     <C>         <C>          <C>
Foreign Exchange Rate Hedge Derivatives:
    Notional amount of foreign
     currency forward contracts....................     $ 24,752    $ 24,752        $   61
    Fixed Canadian to U.S. dollar rate paid........        .6266
    Average forward Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar
     exchange rate as of February 28, 2002.........        .6250
</TABLE>

       Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in
U.S. dollar equivalent amounts,  about derivative financial instruments that the
Company was a party to as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and that were  sensitive
to changes in oil and gas prices.  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001,  all of the
Company's derivative financial instruments that were sensitive to changes in oil
and gas prices qualified as hedges.

       Commodity hedge instruments. The Company hedges commodity price risk with
swap and collar  contracts.  Swap contracts provide a fixed price for a notional
amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts provide minimum ("floor") and maximum
("ceiling")  prices  for the  Company  on a  notional  amount of sales  volumes,
thereby  allowing some price  participation  if the relevant  index price closes
above the floor price.

       See  Notes B, C and J  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
description of the  accounting  procedures  followed by the Company  relative to
hedge derivative financial  instruments and for specific  information  regarding
the terms of the Company's derivative  financial  instruments that are sensitive
to changes in oil and gas prices.
<TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002

                                                                                   Liability
                                                          2003         2004        Fair Value
                                                        --------     --------     ------------
<S>                                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives (1):
 Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
     Swap contracts (2)............................       22,236       14,000      $ (19,912)
      Weighted average fixed price per Bbl.........     $  24.45     $  23.11
   Average forward NYMEX oil prices per Bbl (3)....     $  31.55     $  25.75
<FN>
- ---------------
(1)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2003 and 2004.
(2)  During January 2003, the Company  increased its 2003 oil hedge positions by
     entering  into  6,000 Bbls per day of March  2003 oil swap  contracts  with
     average per Bbl fixed prices of $33.51.
(3)  The average forward NYMEX oil prices per Bbl are based on February 18, 2003
     market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       38

<PAGE>



<TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001

                                                                                     Asset
                                                           2002         2003       Fair Value
                                                         --------     --------     ----------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
     Swap contracts..................................       9,463        2,975        $  23,423
      Weighted average fixed price per Bbl...........    $  26.23     $  24.02
     Collar contracts................................       2,975                     $   5,506
      Weighted average short call ceiling price
        per Bbl......................................    $  28.61
      Weighted average long put floor price
        per Bbl......................................    $  25.00
   Average forward NYMEX oil prices (1)..............    $  21.86     $  21.54
<FN>
- ---------------
(1)  The average  forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 28, 2002 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<TABLE>

                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002

                                                                                         2006 &     Liability
                                                         2003       2004       2005       2007      Fair Value
                                                       --------   --------   --------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (1) (2):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
    Swap contracts...................................   230,000    180,000     10,000      20,000   $ (88,892)
     Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu..........  $   3.76   $   3.81   $   3.70    $   3.75
  Average forward NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu (3).....  $   5.53   $   4.80   $   4.31    $   4.12
<FN>
- --------------
(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(2)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices per MMBtu by calendar quarter for 2003, 2004, 2005,
     2006 and 2007.
(3)  The average  forward  NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu are based on February  18,
     2003 market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<TABLE>

                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001

                                                                                                      Asset
                                                        2002       2003        2004       2005     Fair Value
                                                      --------   --------    --------   --------   ----------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (1) (2):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
    Swap contracts..................................   165,205    117,500     165,000     50,000   $  137,606
     Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu.........  $   4.19   $  3.62     $   3.84   $   3.63
    Collar contracts................................    20,000                                     $   14,019
     Weighted average short call ceiling price
        per MMBtu...................................  $   6.00
     Weighted average long put floor price
        per MMBtu...................................  $   4.50
  Average forward NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu (2)....  $   2.68   $  3.21     $   3.42   $   3.52
<FN>
- ---------------
(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(2)  The average  forward  NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu are based on February  28,
     2002 market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       39

<PAGE>



Qualitative Disclosures

       Non-derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company is a  borrower under
fixed rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate
risk. The Company's  objective in borrowing under fixed or variable rate debt is
to satisfy capital requirements while minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
To realize its  objectives,  the Company  borrows  under fixed and variable rate
debt  instruments,  based on the availability of capital,  market conditions and
hedge  opportunities.  See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
discussion of the Company's debt instruments.

       Derivative financial  instruments.  The Company has,  from  time to time,
entered into interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity price derivative
contracts to hedge  interest  rate,  foreign  exchange rate and commodity  price
risks in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Company's board
of directors.  In accordance with those policies and  guidelines,  the Company's
executive  management  determines  the  appropriate  timing  and extent of hedge
transactions.  Although the Company is a party to certain  derivative  contracts
that do not qualify for hedge accounting  treatment,  the Company's policy is to
limit its participation in derivative contracts to those that, in the opinion of
management, reduce the Company's overall economic risk.

       As of December 31, 2002,  the Company's primary risk exposures associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility,  volatility  in the  exchange  rates  of  the  Canadian  dollar  and
Argentine  peso vis a vis the U.S.  dollar and  interest  rate  volatility.  The
Company's primary risk exposures associated with financial  instruments have not
changed significantly since December 31, 2002.


                                       40

<PAGE>



ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                           Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
   Independent Auditors' Report.........................................    42
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.........    43
   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000..................................    44
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
      Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000............................    45
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000.................................    46
   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the
      Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000......................    47
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...........................    48
   Unaudited Supplementary Information..................................    81




                                       41

<PAGE>






                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

       We have audited  the accompanying consolidated  balance sheets of Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company as of December  31,  2002 and 2001,  and the related
consolidated  statements of  operations,  stockholders'  equity,  cash flows and
comprehensive  income  (loss) for each of the three  years in the  period  ended
December 31, 2002.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

       We conducted  our audits in  accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

       In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  at  December  31,  2002 and 2001,  and the
consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended  December  31, 2002,  in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

       As discussed in Note B to the consolidated financial statements,  in 2001
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities".



                                            Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
January 24, 2003




                                       42

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)

<TABLE>

                                     ASSETS
                                                                           December 31,
                                                                    --------------------------
                                                                        2002           2001
                                                                    -----------    -----------
<S>                                                                 <C>            <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.......................................  $     8,490    $    14,334
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net of reserves for doubtful accounts of $4,744
      and $5,553 as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively...       97,774         81,616
    Affiliates....................................................          448            595
  Inventories.....................................................       10,648         14,549
  Deferred income taxes...........................................       13,900          6,400
  Other current assets:
    Derivative assets, net of valuation reserves of $3,351 and
      $3,153 as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.......        3,150        127,074
    Other.........................................................       12,683         11,075
                                                                     ----------     ----------
      Total current assets........................................      147,093        255,643
                                                                     ----------     ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts method
   of accounting:
    Proved properties.............................................    4,252,897      3,691,783
    Unproved properties...........................................      219,073        187,785
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization............   (1,303,541)    (1,095,310)
                                                                     -----------    ----------
                                                                      3,168,429      2,784,258
                                                                     -----------    ----------
Deferred income taxes.............................................       76,840         84,319
Other property and equipment, net.................................       22,784         21,560
Other assets, net:
  Derivative assets, net of valuation reserves of $1,136 and
    $1,069 as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.........          793         54,486
  Other...........................................................       39,177         70,787
                                                                     ----------     ----------
                                                                    $ 3,455,116    $ 3,271,053
                                                                     ==========     ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade.........................................................  $   117,582    $    92,760
    Affiliates....................................................        7,192          6,405
  Interest payable................................................       37,458         37,410
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivative obligations........................................       83,638         36,830
    Other.........................................................       28,722         54,804
                                                                     ----------     ----------
      Total current liabilities...................................      274,592        228,209
                                                                     ----------     ----------
Long-term debt....................................................    1,668,536      1,577,304
Noncurrent derivative obligations.................................       42,490         32,438
Other noncurrent liabilities......................................       85,841        133,945
Deferred income taxes.............................................        8,760         13,768
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares
    authorized; zero and one share issued and outstanding
    as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively................          -              -
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    119,592,344 shares issued at December 31, 2002; and
    107,422,467 shares issued at December 31, 2001................        1,196          1,074
  Additional paid-in capital......................................    2,714,567      2,462,272
  Treasury stock, at cost; 2,339,806 shares at December 31,
    2002 and 3,486,073 shares at December 31, 2001................      (32,219)       (48,002)
  Deferred compensation...........................................      (14,292)           -
  Accumulated deficit.............................................   (1,298,440)    (1,323,343)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income:
    Deferred hedge gains, net.....................................        9,555        201,046
    Cumulative translation adjustment.............................       (5,470)        (7,658)
                                                                     ----------     ----------
      Total stockholders' equity..................................    1,374,897      1,285,389

Commitments and contingencies
                                                                     ----------     ----------
                                                                    $ 3,455,116    $ 3,271,053
                                                                     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       43

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)


<TABLE>

                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                           -----------------------------------
                                                              2002        2001         2000
                                                           ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas..........................................    $ 701,780    $ 847,022    $ 852,738
  Interest and other...................................       11,222       21,778       25,775
  Gain on disposition of assets, net...................        4,432        7,681       34,184
                                                            --------     --------     --------
                                                             717,434      876,481      912,697
                                                            --------     --------     --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production...............................      199,570      209,664      189,265
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization.............      216,375      222,632      214,938
  Exploration and abandonments.........................       85,894      127,906       87,550
  General and administrative...........................       48,402       36,968       33,262
  Interest.............................................       95,815      131,958      161,952
  Other................................................       17,256       39,588       67,231
                                                            --------     --------     --------
                                                             663,312      768,716      754,198
                                                            --------     --------     --------
Income before income taxes and extraordinary items.....       54,122      107,765      158,499
Income tax benefit (provision).........................       (5,063)      (4,016)       6,000
                                                            --------     --------     --------
Income before extraordinary items......................       49,059      103,749      164,499
Extraordinary items - loss on early extinguishment
  of debt, net of tax..................................      (22,346)      (3,753)     (12,318)
                                                            --------     --------     --------
Net income.............................................    $  26,713    $  99,996    $ 152,181
                                                            ========     ========     ========
Income per share:
  Basic:
     Income before extraordinary items.................    $     .44    $    1.05    $    1.65
     Extraordinary items...............................         (.20)        (.04)        (.12)
                                                            --------     --------     --------
     Net income........................................    $     .24    $    1.01    $    1.53
                                                            ========     ========     ========
  Diluted:
     Income before extraordinary items.................    $     .43    $    1.04    $    1.65
     Extraordinary items...............................         (.20)        (.04)        (.12)
                                                            --------     --------     --------
     Net income........................................    $     .23    $    1.00    $    1.53
                                                            ========     ========     ========
Weighted average shares outstanding:
     Basic.............................................      112,542       98,529       99,378
                                                            ========     ========     ========
     Diluted...........................................      114,288       99,714       99,763
                                                            ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>



              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       44

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                                                  Accumulated Other
                                                                                                Comprehensive Income
                                                                                           -----------------------------
                                                                                           Deferred  Invest-               Total
                                            Additional            Deferred                  Hedge     ment      Trans-     Stock-
                                   Common    Paid-in    Treasury   Compen-   Accumulated   Gains &   Gains &    lation     holders'
                                    Stock    Capital     Stock     sation      Deficit     Losses    Losses   Adjustment   Equity
                                   -------  ----------  --------  ---------  -----------  --------  --------  ---------- ----------

<S>                                <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Balance at December 31, 1999...... $ 1,009  $2,348,448  $(10,384) $   -      $(1,574,884) $    -     $    -    $ 10,425  $  774,614

Exercise of stock options and
 employee stock purchases.........       4       4,160       -         -             -          -         -         -         4,164
Purchase of treasury stock........     -           -     (27,298)      -             -          -         -         -       (27,298)
Net income........................     -           -         -         -         152,181        -         -         -       152,181
Other comprehensive income
 (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available
   for sale securities:
     Unrealized holdings gains....     -           -         -         -             -          -      33,828       -        33,828
     Gains included in net
      income......................     -           -         -         -             -          -     (25,674)      -       (25,674)
  Currency translation adjustment.     -           -         -         -             -          -         -      (6,910)     (6,910)
                                    ------   ---------   -------   --------   ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2000......   1,013   2,352,608   (37,682)      -      (1,422,703)       -       8,154     3,515     904,905
                                    ------   ---------   -------   --------   ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Common stock issued for
 partnership acquisitions.........      57     104,236       -         -             -          -         -         -       104,293
Exercise of stock options and
 employee stock purchases.........       4       5,428     2,708       -            (636)       -         -         -         7,504
Purchase of treasury stock........     -           -     (13,028)      -             -          -         -         -       (13,028)
Net income........................     -           -         -         -          99,996        -         -         -        99,996
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedge gains and losses:
     Transition adjustment........     -           -         -         -             -     (197,444)      -         -      (197,444)
     Deferred hedge gains.........     -           -         -         -             -      393,004       -         -       393,004
     Net losses included in net
      income......................     -           -         -         -             -        5,486       -         -         5,486
  Unrealized gains and losses on
   available for sale securities:
     Unrealized holdings losses...     -           -         -         -             -          -         (45)      -           (45)
     Gains included in net income.     -           -         -         -             -          -      (8,109)      -        (8,109)
  Currency translation adjustment.     -           -         -         -             -          -         -     (11,173)    (11,173)
                                    ------   ---------   -------   --------   ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2001......   1,074   2,462,272   (48,002)      -      (1,323,343)   201,046       -      (7,658)  1,285,389
                                    ------   ---------   -------   --------   ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Issuance of common stock..........     115     235,885       -         -             -          -         -         -       236,000
Adjustment to common stock
  issued for 2001 partnership
  acquisitions....................     -          (175)      -         -             -          -         -         -          (175)
Exercise of stock options and
 employee stock purchases.........     -           416    15,783       -          (1,810)       -         -         -        14,389
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred...........       7      16,169       -     (16,176)          -          -         -         -           -
  Deferred compensation included
   in net income..................     -           -         -       1,884           -          -         -         -         1,884
Net income........................     -           -         -         -          26,713        -         -         -        26,713
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedge gains and losses,
   net of tax:
     Deferred hedge losses........     -           -         -         -             -     (179,067)      -         -      (179,067)
     Net gains included in net
      income......................     -           -         -         -             -      (12,424)      -         -       (12,424)
  Currency translation adjustment.     -           -         -         -             -          -         -       2,188       2,188
                                    ------   ---------   -------   -------    ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2002...... $ 1,196  $2,714,567  $(32,219) $(14,292)  $(1,298,440) $   9,555  $    -    $ (5,470) $1,374,897
                                    ======   =========   =======   =======    ==========   ========   =======   =======   =========
</TABLE>


              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       45

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>


                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                -------------------------------------
                                                                   2002         2001          2000
                                                                ---------    ---------    -----------
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income..................................................  $  26,713    $  99,996    $   152,181
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization...............    216,375      222,632        214,938
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes..............     64,617      103,595         66,959
       Deferred income taxes..................................      2,788       (7,649)       (10,600)
       Gain on disposition of assets, net.....................     (4,432)      (7,681)       (34,184)
       Loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.......     22,346        3,753         12,318
       Interest related amortization..........................     (5,809)       8,689         12,699
       Commodity hedge related amortization...................     26,490        6,199            -
       Other noncash items....................................      9,301       14,944         59,776
     Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of
         effects from acquisitions:
       Accounts receivable....................................    (23,922)      41,295         (7,486)
       Inventory..............................................      3,023       (4,256)        (2,789)
       Other current assets...................................     (1,836)      (6,304)        (9,896)
       Accounts payable.......................................       (342)        (541)        26,260
       Interest payable.......................................         48         (733)         2,097
       Other current liabilities..............................     (3,115)       1,661        (52,177)
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
       Net cash provided by operating activities..............    332,245      475,600        430,096
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisitions, net of fees paid.............        -         11,119            -
  Proceeds from disposition of assets.........................    118,850      113,453        102,736
  Additions to oil and gas properties.........................   (614,698)    (529,723)      (299,682)
  Other property dispositions (additions), net................    (12,283)     (17,590)         2,445
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
       Net cash used in investing activities..................   (508,131)    (422,741)      (194,501)
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt.............................    529,805      328,331        922,607
  Principal payments on long-term debt........................   (481,783)    (333,410)    (1,099,935)
  Common stock issuance proceeds, net of issuance costs.......    236,000          -             -
  Payments of other noncurrent liabilities....................   (124,245)     (53,437)       (29,759)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases......     14,389        7,504          4,164
  Purchase of treasury stock..................................        -        (13,028)       (27,298)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs...........................     (3,293)         -          (13,847)
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
       Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities....    170,873      (64,040)      (244,068)
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents ....................     (5,013)     (11,181)        (8,473)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents..       (831)        (644)          (156)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year..................     14,334       26,159         34,788
                                                                 --------     --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year........................  $   8,490    $  14,334    $    26,159
                                                                 ========     ========     ==========
</TABLE>



              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       46

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (in thousands)



<TABLE>

                                                                Year ended December 31,
                                                         ------------------------------------
                                                            2002         2001         2000
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------

<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Net income............................................   $   26,713   $   99,996   $  152,181

Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedge gains and losses, net of tax:
     Transition adjustment............................          -       (197,444)         -
     Deferred hedge gains (losses)....................     (179,067)     393,004          -
     Net (gains) losses included in net income........      (12,424)       5,486          -
  Gains and losses on available for sale securities:
     Unrealized holding gains (losses)................          -            (45)      33,828
     Gains included in net income.....................          -         (8,109)     (25,674)
  Currency translation adjustment.....................        2,188      (11,173)      (6,910)
                                                          ---------    ----------   ---------
       Other comprehensive income (loss)..............     (189,303)     181,719        1,244
                                                          ---------    ---------    ---------
Comprehensive income (loss)...........................   $ (162,590)  $  281,715   $  153,425
                                                          =========    =========    =========

</TABLE>






              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       47

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

       Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company   (the  "Company")   is  a  Delaware
corporation  whose  common  stock is listed  and  traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange.  The Company is an oil and gas exploration and production company with
ownership  interests  in oil and gas  properties  located in the United  States,
Argentina, Canada, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       Principles  of  consolidation.   The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the  accounts of the Company  and its  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  since
their acquisition or formation, and the Company's interest in the affiliated oil
and gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of
its wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  The Company  proportionately  consolidates less
than 100  percent-owned  oil and gas  partnerships  in accordance  with industry
practice.  The Company  owns less than a 20 percent  interest in the oil and gas
partnerships that it  proportionately  consolidates.  All material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

       Investments  in non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  have  a readily
determinable  fair value are classified as "trading  securities" if management's
current intent is to hold them for only a short period of time; otherwise,  they
are accounted for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The Company reevaluates
the  classification of investments in  non-affiliated  equity securities at each
balance   sheet   date.   The   carrying   value  of  trading   securities   and
available-for-sale  securities  are  adjusted  to fair value as of each  balance
sheet date.

       Unrealized  holding  gains  are  recognized  for  trading  securities  in
interest and other  revenue,  and  unrealized  holding  losses are recognized in
other  expense  during the periods in which  changes in fair value occur.  As of
December 31, 2002, the Company had $.2 million of trading securities recorded to
other  assets.  The  Company  had no  investments  in trading  securities  as of
December 31, 2001.

       Unrealized holding gains and losses are recognized for available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income (loss) during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.  Realized
gains  and  losses  on the  divestiture  of  available-for-sale  securities  are
determined  using  the  average  cost  method.  The  Company  did not  have  any
investments in available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2002 or 2001.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  do not  have a
readily determinable fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost
or the net  realizable  value of the  investment.  The  Company did not have any
equity security  investments that did not have a readily determinable fair value
as of December 31, 2002 or 2001.

       Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements.  Preparation
of  the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting  periods.  Depletion of oil and gas  properties  is  determined  using
estimates  of proved  oil and gas  reserves.  There are  numerous  uncertainties
inherent  in  the  estimation  of  quantities  of  proved  reserves  and  in the
projection  of  future  rates  of  production  and  the  timing  of  development
expenditures.  Similarly,  evaluations for impairment of proved and unproved oil
and gas  properties  are  subject to  numerous  uncertainties  including,  among
others,  estimates of future  recoverable  reserves;  commodity  price outlooks;
foreign laws,  restrictions  and currency  exchange rates; and export and excise
taxes.

       Early  in  January  2002,  the  Argentine  government  severed the direct
one-to-one U.S. dollar to Argentine peso  relationship that had existed for many
years.   The  following   bullet  points  disclose  the  significant   Argentine
assumptions  utilized  in  the  preparation  of  the  2002  and  2001  financial
statements:


                                       48

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000



o    As of December 31, 2002 and 2001,  the Company used exchange  rates of 3.37
     pesos  to  $1  and  1.7  pesos  to  $1,  respectively,   to  remeasure  the
     peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of the Company's Argentine
     subsidiaries.

o    As part  of the  December  31,  2001  remeasurement  process,  the  Company
     estimated  that  the  recovery  or  settlement  values  to be  realized  on
     pre-devaluation,   peso-denominated   receivables  and  payables  would  be
     approximately 1.2 pesos to $1.

o    After  remeasuring  inventory at  historical  exchange  rates,  the Company
     reduced the carrying  value of its  Argentine  lease and well  equipment to
     market  values.  The market value of the  inventory  was estimated to be 15
     percent  higher  than the  historical  peso  balance,  but  lower  than the
     Company's  carrying cost on an equivalent  U.S. dollar basis as of December
     31, 2001.

o    The Company  reviewed  its  Argentine  proved and unproved  properties  for
     impairment as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. The Company's assessments were
     based on the  Company's  expectations  of  future  commodity  prices  to be
     received  and  expenses  to be paid in  Argentina.  The  December  31, 2002
     assumptions utilized to determine future net cash flows had oil and natural
     gas liquids  ("NGLs")  prices at world  market  prices  adjusted for export
     taxes and local  market  discounts.  Gas prices  were  assumed to return to
     predevaluation  U.S.  dollar  levels  after a period  of time to allow  for
     inflation.  Expenses  were  initially  assumed to be equivalent to reported
     expenses  in 2002,  but to  gradually  increase  to 15  percent  above 2002
     levels.  Based upon these  assumptions,  the  Company  determined  that the
     carrying value of its proved and unproved properties was fully recoverable.

       The remeasurement of  the  peso-denominated  monetary  net  assets of the
Company's Argentine subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 resulted in the Company
recognizing  a  $6.9  million   charge  during  2002.   The  December  31,  2001
remeasurement of the Company's Argentine subsidiaries' peso-denominated monetary
net assets and the  adjustment to reduce the  subsidiaries'  carrying  values of
lease and well  equipment  inventory  to market  values  resulted in the Company
recognizing  a  $7.7  million  charge  in  2001.  Numerous  uncertainties  exist
surrounding  the ultimate  resolution  of  Argentina's  economic  and  political
instability and actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions
utilized.

       The Argentine  economic and  political situation  continues to evolve and
the Argentine  government may enact future  regulations  or policies that,  when
finalized  and  adopted,  may  materially  impact,  among other  items,  (i) the
realized prices the Company  receives for the commodities it produces and sells;
(ii) the timing of repatriations of excess cash flow to the Company's  corporate
headquarters  in the United States;  (iii) the Company's asset  valuations;  and
(iv) peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities.

       New accounting pronouncements. During June 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No.
143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143"). SFAS 143 amends
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and
Reporting by Oil and Gas  Producing  Companies"  ("SFAS 19") to require that the
fair value of a liability  for an asset  retirement  obligation be recognized in
the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made.  Under  the  provisions  of SFAS 143,  asset  retirement  obligations  are
capitalized  as part of the carrying value of the  long-lived  asset.  Under the
provisions  of SFAS 19, asset  retirement  obligations  are  recognized  using a
cost-accumulation  approach.  The Company  currently  records  significant asset
retirement  obligations through the  unit-of-production  method, except for such
liabilities that were assumed in business  combinations,  which were recorded at
their  estimated fair values.  The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on
January 1, 2003.

       The adoption of SFAS 143  resulted in a January 1, 2003 cumulative effect
adjustment  to record (i) a $13.8  million  increase in the  carrying  values of
proved  properties,  (ii) a $26.3 million decrease in accumulated  depreciation,
depletion,

                                       49

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


and amortization of property, plant and equipment, (iii) a $1.0 million increase
in  current  abandonment  liabilities  and  (iv) a  $22.4  million  increase  in
noncurrent abandonment liabilities. The net impact of items (i) through (iv) was
to record a gain of $16.7 million, net of tax, as a cumulative effect adjustment
of a change in accounting principle in the Company's consolidated  statements of
operations upon adoption on January 1, 2003.

       During April 2002,  the FASB  issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of
FASB  Statement No. 13 and  Technical  Corrections"  ("SFAS 145").  Prior to the
adoption  of  the  provisions  of  SFAS  145,  gains  or  losses  on  the  early
extinguishment  of debt were required to be  classified in a company's  periodic
consolidated  statements of operations as extraordinary  gains or losses, net of
associated  income  taxes,  after  the  determination  of  income  or loss  from
continuing  operations.  SFAS 145  requires,  except  in the case of  events  or
transactions of a highly unusual and infrequent nature, gains or losses from the
early  extinguishment  of debt to be  classified  as  components  of a company's
income or loss from continuing operations. The Company adopted the provisions of
SFAS 145 on January 1, 2003.  The adoption of the  provisions of SFAS 145 is not
expected to affect the Company's  future financial  position or liquidity.  Upon
adoption  of the  provisions  of SFAS  145,  gains  or  losses  from  the  early
extinguishment  of debt recognized in the Company's  consolidated  statements of
operations  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001 and  2000  will be
reclassified   to  other   revenues  or  other   expense  and  included  in  the
determination of the income (loss) from continuing operations of those periods.

       Cash equivalents.  Cash  and cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

       Inventories - equipment.  Lease and well  equipment to be  used in future
production  and drilling  activities are carried at the lower of cost or market,
on a first-in,  first-out  basis.  The Company has established  lower of cost or
market allowances to reduce the carrying values of its equipment  inventories in
the amounts of $3.6  million and $6.8  million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

       Inventories - commodities.  Commodities  are  carried  at  the  lower  of
average cost or market.  When sold from inventory,  commodities are removed on a
first-in, first-out basis.

       Oil and gas properties.  The  Company  utilizes  the  successful  efforts
method of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this method,  all
costs associated with productive wells and  nonproductive  development wells are
capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical
expenditures  are expensed.  The Company also expenses the costs associated with
exploratory wells that find oil and gas reserves if a determination  that proved
reserves have been found cannot be made within one year of the exploration  well
being drilled.  The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for significant
development projects until such projects are ready for their intended use.

       The Company  owns interests  in 11 natural gas processing plants and five
treating  facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the  plants and all five
treating  facilities.  The  Company's  ownership  in the natural gas  processing
plants  and  treating  facilities  is  primarily  to  accommodate  handling  the
Company's gas  production and thus are considered a component of the capital and
operating costs of the respective  fields that they service.  To the extent that
there is excess capacity at a plant or treating  facility,  the Company attempts
to  process  third  party gas  volumes  for a fee to keep the plant or  treating
facility at capacity.  All  revenues  and expenses  derived from third party gas
volumes  processed  through the plants and treating  facilities  are reported as
components of oil and gas production  costs. The third party revenues  generated
from the plant and treating  facilities  for the three years ended  December 31,
2002,  2001 and 2000 were  $28.4  million,  $32.7  million  and  $36.3  million,
respectively.  The third party expenses  attributable to the plants and treating
facilities  for those same  periods  were $9.3  million,  $9.7  million and $9.0
million,  respectively.  The  capitalized  costs  of  the  plants  and  treating
facilities  are included in proved oil and gas properties and are depleted using
the unit-of-production   method along  with the other  capitalized  costs of the
field that they service.


                                       50

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Capitalized  costs  relating  to proved properties are depleted using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves.  Costs  of  significant
nonproducing  properties,  wells in the process of being drilled and development
projects are excluded from depletion  until such time as the related  project is
completed and proved reserves are established or, if unsuccessful, impairment is
determined.

       Capitalized costs of individual  properties sold or abandoned are charged
to accumulated  depletion,  depreciation and amortization with the proceeds from
the sales of individual  properties  credited to property costs. No gain or loss
is recognized until the entire amortization base is sold. However,  gain or loss
is  recognized  from the sale of less  than an entire  amortization  base if the
disposition is significant enough to materially impact the depletion rate of the
remaining properties in the amortization base.

       If significant,  the Company accrues the  estimated future  costs to plug
and abandon wells under the unit-of-production   method.  The charge, if any, is
reflected  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated   Statements  of  Operations  as
abandonment  expense  while  the  liability  is  reflected  in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets as other  liabilities.  Plugging  and  abandonment
liabilities  assumed in a business  combination  accounted for as a purchase are
recorded  at fair  value.  At  December  31,  2002 and  2001,  the  Company  has
recognized  plugging  and  abandonment  liabilities  of $34.7  million and $39.5
million,  respectively.  See "New accounting pronouncements" for a discussion of
the  provisions  of SFAS 143 that will be adopted  by the  Company on January 1,
2003.

       The Company reviews its long-lived assets to be held and used,  including
proved oil and gas properties  accounted for under the successful efforts method
of accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An impairment loss is indicated if the
sum of the expected  future cash flows is less than the  carrying  amount of the
assets. In this circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the
amount by which the  carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the  estimated  fair
value of the asset.

       Unproved  oil and gas  properties that  are individually  significant are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a  project-by-project  basis.  The  estimated  value is affected by the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or  expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of
potential  reserves  determined by such  evaluations  is not sufficient to fully
recover  the cost  invested  in each  project,  the Company  will  recognize  an
impairment loss at that time by recording an allowance.  The remaining  unproved
oil and gas  properties,  if  any,  are  aggregated  and an  overall  impairment
allowance is provided based on the Company's historical experience.

       Treasury stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases are  recorded  at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

       Environmental.  The Company's environmental  expenditures are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or  mitigate  or  prevent  future   environmental   contamination  are
capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability are fixed or reliably determinable.

       Revenue  recognition.   The  Company  uses  the  entitlements  method  of
accounting  for oil,  NGL and gas  revenues.  Sales  proceeds  in  excess of the
Company's  entitlement are included in other liabilities and the Company's share
of sales  taken by  others  is  included  in other  assets  in the  accompanying
Consolidated   Balance  Sheets.  The  following  table  presents  the  Company's
entitlement  assets and entitlement  liabilities and their associated volumes as
of December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in millions):


                                       51

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

<TABLE>

                                                              December 31,
                                                    ---------------------------------
                                                         2002              2001
                                                    ---------------   ---------------
                                                    Amount    MMcf    Amount    MMcf
                                                    ------   ------   ------   ------

<S>                                                 <C>       <C>     <C>      <C>
       Entitlement assets.......................    $  9.7    4,240   $ 30.9   25,335
       Entitlement liabilities..................    $ 15.1   14,302   $ 20.3   15,197
</TABLE>

       Derivatives and hedging. Prior to January 1, 2001, the following criteria
were  required to be met in order for the  Company to account  for a  derivative
instrument  as a hedge of an existing  asset or  liability,  or of a  forecasted
transaction:  an asset,  liability or forecasted  transaction  must have existed
that exposed the Company to price,  interest rate or foreign  exchange rate risk
that was not offset in another asset or  liability;  the  derivative  instrument
must have reduced that price,  interest rate or foreign exchange rate risk; and,
the derivative  instrument must have been designated as a hedge at the inception
of the instrument and  throughout  the hedge period.  Additionally,  in order to
qualify as a hedge,  there must have been clear  correlation  between changes in
the fair value or expected cash flows of the derivative  instrument and the fair
value or expected  cash flows of the hedged asset or  liability,  or  forecasted
transaction, such that changes in the derivative instrument offset the effect of
price, interest rate or foreign exchange rate changes on the exposed items.

       Prior to January 1,  2001,  gains  or  losses  realized  from  derivative
instruments  that  qualified  as hedges were  deferred as assets or  liabilities
until the underlying hedged asset, liability or transaction  monetized,  matured
or was otherwise recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. When
recognized  in net income  (loss),  hedge  gains and losses were  classified  as
components of the commodity prices,  interest or foreign exchange rates that the
derivative instrument hedged.  Derivative  instruments that were not hedges were
recorded at fair value, as assets or liabilities.  Changes in the fair values of
non-hedge  derivative  instruments  were  recognized  as other  income  or other
expense during the periods in which their fair values changed.

       In June 1998,  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging  Activities" ("SFAS 133") as amended,  the provisions of
which the Company adopted effective January 1, 2001.

       SFAS  133   requires  the   accounting  recognition   of  all  derivative
instruments  as  either  assets  or   liabilities  at  fair  value.   Derivative
instruments  that are not hedges  must be  adjusted  to fair value  through  net
income (loss).  Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of
derivative  instruments that are fair value hedges are offset against changes in
the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities,  or firm commitments,  through
net income (loss). Effective changes in the fair value of derivative instruments
that are cash flow hedges are  recognized  in  Accumulated  other  comprehensive
income ("AOCI") - deferred hedge gains, net in the stockholders'  equity section
of the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets until such time as the hedged items
are  recognized  in net income  (loss).  Ineffective  portions  of a  derivative
instrument's  change in fair  value are  immediately  recognized  in net  income
(loss).

       The  adoption  of  SFAS 133  resulted  in a  January 1,  2001  transition
adjustment  to (i)  reclassify  $57.8  million of deferred  losses on terminated
hedge  positions  from other assets  (including  $11.6  million of other current
assets),  (ii)  increase  other current  assets,  other assets and other current
liabilities by $7.0 million, $6.2 million and $146.6 million,  respectively,  to
record the fair value of open hedge  derivatives,  (iii)  increase  the carrying
value of hedged  long-term  debt by $6.2  million and (iv) reduce  stockholders'
equity by $197.4  million for the net impact of items (i) through  (iii)  above.
The  $197.4  million  reduction  in  stockholders'  equity  was  reflected  as a
transition adjustment in other comprehensive income (loss) on January 1, 2001.

       Under the provisions of SFAS 133,  the Company may designate a derivative
instrument as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a
liability or an identified  portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk (a "fair  value  hedge") or as  hedging  the  exposure  to  variability  in
expected future cash flows that are  attributable to a particular risk  (a "cash

                                       52

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


flow hedge").  Both at the inception of a hedge and on an ongoing  basis, a fair
value hedge must be  expected to be highly  effective  in  achieving  offsetting
changes in fair value  attributable to the hedged risk during the periods that a
hedge is designated.  Similarly, a cash flow hedge must be expected to be highly
effective in achieving  offsetting  cash flows  attributable  to the hedged risk
during the term of the hedge.  The  expectation of hedge  effectiveness  must be
supported  by matching the  essential  terms of the hedged  asset,  liability or
forecasted  transaction  to the derivative  hedge  contract or by  effectiveness
assessments  using statistical  measurements.  The Company's policy is to assess
actual hedge effectiveness at the end of each calendar quarter.

       See  Note  J  for  a  description  of  the  specific  types of derivative
transactions in which the Company participates.

       Stock-based compensation. The Company has a long-term incentive plan (the
"Long-Term   Incentive  Plan")  under  which  the  Company  grants   stock-based
compensation.  The Long-Term  Incentive  Plan is described more fully in Note G.
The Company  accounts for stock-based  compensation  granted under the Long-Term
Incentive  Plan  using the  intrinsic  value  method  prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB 25") and related  interpretations.  Stock-based compensation expenses were
not  recognized  in net  income,  as all  options  granted  under the  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan had exercise  prices equal to the market value of the underlying
common stock on the dates of grant.  The following table  illustrates the effect
on net income and  earnings  per share if the Company had applied the fair value
recognition  provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation"  ("SFAS 123") to stock-based employee
compensation:
<TABLE>

                                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                                           --------------------------------
                                                             2003        2002        2001
                                                           --------    --------    --------
                                                       (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
  Net income, as reported...............................   $ 26,713    $ 99,996    $152,181
  Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation
    expense determined under fair value based
    method for all awards, net of related tax effects...     (9,807)     (6,533)     (4,163)
                                                            -------     -------     -------
  Pro forma net income..................................   $ 16,906    $ 93,463    $148,018
                                                            =======     =======     =======
  Net income per share:
    Basic - as reported.................................   $    .24    $   1.01    $   1.53
                                                            =======     =======     =======
    Basic - pro forma...................................   $    .15    $    .95    $   1.49
                                                            =======     =======     =======
    Diluted - as reported...............................   $    .23    $   1.00    $   1.53
                                                            =======     =======     =======
    Diluted - pro forma.................................   $    .15    $    .94    $   1.48
                                                            =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>

     Foreign currency translation.  The  U.S.  dollar is the functional currency
for all of the Company's  international  operations except Canada.  Accordingly,
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are remeasured
to U.S.  dollars  at the  exchange  rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses  denominated in a foreign  currency are
remeasured  at the average of the exchange  rates that were in effect during the
period  in which  the  revenues  and costs and  expenses  were  recognized.  The
resulting gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency denominated balances
into U.S.  dollars are recorded in other income or other expense,  respectively.
Non-monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in a foreign  currency  are
remeasured at the historic exchange rates that were in effect when the assets or
liabilities were acquired or incurred.

     The  functional  currency  of the  Company's  Canadian  operations  is  the
Canadian dollar. The financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiary
entities are translated to U. S. dollars as follows:  all assets and liabilities
are  translated  using the exchange rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses are translated using the average of the
exchange  rates that were in effect  during the period in which the revenues and
costs  and  expenses  were  recognized.  The  resulting  gains  or  losses  from
translating non-U.S. dollar denominated balances are

                                       53

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for
the period through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

     The  exchange  rates  used to  translate the  financial  statements  of the
Company's Canadian subsidiary in the preparation of these consolidated financial
statements appear below:
<TABLE>

                                                                          December 31,
                                                                     -----------------------
                                                                      2002     2001     2000
                                                                     -----    -----    -----
<S>                                                                  <C>      <C>      <C>
    Translation:
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets..............  .6362    .6277    .6671
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of Operations....  .6371    .6356    .6650
</TABLE>

       Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications have  been made to the 2001
and 2000 amounts to conform to the 2002 presentation.

NOTE C.     Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following  table  presents  the  carrying amounts  and estimated fair
values of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>

                                                            2002                    2001
                                                   ---------------------    ----------------------
                                                    Carrying     Fair       Carrying      Fair
                                                      Value      Value        Value       Value
                                                   ---------   ---------    ---------   ----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
Derivative contract assets (liabilities):
     Commodity price hedges....................    $(108,837)  $(108,837)   $ 151,290   $ 151,290
     Btu swap contracts........................    $ (13,363)  $ (13,363)   $ (19,422)  $ (19,422)
     Interest rate swaps.......................    $     -     $     -      $ (19,637)  $ (19,637)
     Foreign currency contracts................    $      15   $      15    $      61   $      61
Financial assets:
     Trading securities........................    $     236   $     236    $     -     $     -
     5-1/2% note receivable due 2008...........    $   2,247   $   2,283    $     -     $     -
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
     Line of credit............................    $(260,000)  $(260,000)   $(294,000)  $(294,000)
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005..............    $(146,704)  $(147,318)   $(161,998)  $(159,000)
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007..............    $(161,130)  $(164,925)   $(153,672)  $(154,215)
     6-1/2% senior notes due 2008..............    $(362,592)  $(359,205)   $(332,613)  $(329,280)
     9-5/8% senior notes due 2010..............    $(338,197)  $(406,901)   $(385,110)  $(421,508)
     7-1/2% senior notes due 2012..............    $(150,000)  $(160,635)   $     -     $     -
     7-1/5% senior notes due 2028..............    $(249,913)  $(245,025)   $(249,911)  $(204,175)
</TABLE>

       Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts receivable,  other current  assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

       Commodity  price swap  and collar  contracts,  interest  rate  swaps  and
foreign  currency  swap  contracts.  The fair value of commodity  price swap and
collar  contracts,  interest  rate  swaps and  foreign  currency  contracts  are
estimated  from  quotes  provided  by the  counterparties  to  these  derivative
contracts and  represent the estimated  amounts that the Company would expect to
receive  or pay to  settle  the  derivative  contracts.  During  the year  ended
December 31, 2002, the Company terminated all of its interest rate swaps and the
Company's foreign currency  contracts  matured.  See Note J for a description of
each of these derivatives,  including whether the derivative  contract qualifies
for  hedge  accounting  treatment  or is  considered  a  speculative  derivative
contract.


                                       54

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Financial assets.  As of December 31, 2002, the Company had an investment
in bonds that were classified as trading  securities and a note receivable.  The
Company  divested the bonds  during  January  2003.  The fair value of the 5-1/2
percent note  receivable  was  determined  based on  underlying  market rates of
interest.

       Long-term debt.  The carrying amount  of borrowings outstanding under the
Company's  corporate  credit  facility  approximates  fair value  because  these
instruments  bear interest at variable market rates.  The fair values of each of
the senior note issuances were determined based on quoted market prices for each
of the issues.  See Note E for  additional  information  regarding the Company's
long-term debt.

NOTE D.     Acquisitions

       Falcon acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
purchased,  through two transactions,  an additional 30 percent working interest
in the Falcon field  development and a 25 percent working interest in associated
acreage in the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico for a combined  purchase price of $61.1
million.  As a result  of these  transactions,  the  Company  owns a 75  percent
working  interest  in and  operates  the Falcon  field  development  and related
exploration blocks.

       West Panhandle acquisitions.  During July 2002, the Company completed the
purchase  of the  remaining  23 percent of the rights  that the  Company did not
already own in its core area West  Panhandle gas field,  100 percent of the West
Panhandle  reserves  attributable to field fuel, 100 percent of the related West
Panhandle  field  gathering  system and ten  blocks  surrounding  the  Company's
deepwater   Gulf  of  Mexico  Falcon   discovery.   In  connection   with  these
transactions,  the  Company  recorded  $100.4  million  to  proved  oil  and gas
properties,  $3.8 million to unproved oil and gas properties and $1.9 million to
assets held for resale;  retired a capital cost  obligation  for $60.8  million;
settled  a  $20.9   million  gas   balancing   receivable;   assumed  trade  and
environmental  obligations amounting to $5.8 million in the aggregate;  and paid
$140.2 million of cash. The capital cost  obligation  retired by the Company for
$60.8 million  represented  an obligation  for West  Panhandle gas field capital
additions that was not able to be prepaid and bore interest at an annual rate of
20 percent. The portion of the purchase price allocated to the retirement of the
capital cost  obligation  was based on a discounted  cash flow analysis  using a
market  discount  rate for  obligations  with  similar  terms.  The capital cost
obligation had a carrying value of $45.2 million,  resulting in an extraordinary
loss of $15.6 million from the early extinguishment of this obligation.

       Affiliated partnership mergers.  During 2001,  the limited partners of 42
of the  Company's  affiliated  partnerships  approved an  agreement  and plan of
merger ("Plan of Merger") among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
("Pioneer USA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and the partnerships.
The Plan of Merger was  accounted  for as a purchase  business  combination.  In
consideration for the  partnerships'  net assets,  the limited partners received
5.7 million shares of the Company's  common stock valued at $18.35 per share. In
connection with this  transaction,  the Company recorded $92.9 million to proved
oil and gas  properties,  $13.6  million  to cash and $.3  million  to other net
assets.  The cash  acquired from the  partnerships,  net of $2.5 million of cash
transaction  costs, is included in "cash acquired in  acquisitions,  net of fees
paid" in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement  of Cash  Flows for the year
ended  December  31,  2001.  Except  for the  cash  acquired,  this  transaction
represents  a noncash  investing  activity of the Company that was funded by the
issuance of common stock.

       During 2000,  the Company  received the  approval  of the  partners of 13
employee  partnerships  to merge with  Pioneer USA for a purchase  price of $2.0
million.  Of the  total  purchase  price,  $317  thousand  was  paid to  Company
employees.  Additionally,  during 2000, the Company  purchased all of the direct
oil and gas  interests  held by the  Company's  Chairman  of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer for $195 thousand.

       Other acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2002,  in addition
to the Falcon and West  Panhandle  acquisitions  referred to above,  the Company
spent  approximately $25.5 million to acquire additional unproved acreage in the
United States,  including 34 Gulf of Mexico shelf blocks,  six deepwater Gulf of
Mexico blocks, a 70 percent

                                       55

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


working  interest  in ten state  leases on  Alaska's  North  Slope and  property
interests in other areas of the United  States.  Also during  2002,  the Company
acquired  unproved and proved oil and gas  property  interests in Canada for 2.3
million and $.5 million,  respectively,  and $1.8 million of additional unproved
property  interests in Tunisia.  During 2001, the Company spent $77.9 million to
acquire  additional  working  interests  in the  United  States  Gulf of  Mexico
Aconcagua discovery,  the related Canyon Express gathering system and the Devils
Tower  project;  21  deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico  blocks;  250,000  acres  in the
Anticlinal Campamento,  Dos Hermanas and La Calera areas of the Neuquen Basin in
Argentina; and a 30 percent interest in the Anaguid permit in the Ghadames basin
onshore  Southern  Tunisia.  During  2000,  the Company  spent $65.0  million to
acquire  additional  working  interests  in the  United  States  Gulf of  Mexico
discovery at Devils Tower and the Chinchaga gas field in Canada,  an interest in
the Camden  Hills  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  discovery  and the Canyon  Express
gathering system.

NOTE E.     Long-term Debt

       Long-term debt, including the effects of fair value hedges and discounts,
consisted of the following components at December 31, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
                                                         December 31,
                                                 ---------------------------
                                                    2002            2001
                                                 ----------      -----------
                                                       (in thousands)

<S>                                              <C>             <C>
Line of credit...............................    $  260,000      $  294,000
8-7/8% senior notes due 2005.................       146,704         161,998
8-1/4% senior notes due 2007.................       161,130         153,672
6-1/2% senior notes due 2008.................       362,592         332,613
9-5/8% senior notes due 2010.................       338,197         385,110
7-1/2% senior notes due 2012.................       150,000             -
7-1/5% senior notes due 2028.................       249,913         249,911
                                                  ---------       ---------
                                                 $1,668,536      $1,577,304
                                                  =========       =========
</TABLE>

       Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2002 are as follows (in
thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>                                              <C>
             2003 and 2004...................    $      -
             2005............................    $  406,704
             2006............................    $      -
             2007............................    $  161,130
             Thereafter......................    $1,100,702
</TABLE>

       Line of credit.  During  May 2000,  the  Company  entered  into a  $575.0
million corporate credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndication of
banks (the  "Banks")  that matures on March 1, 2005.  Advances  under the Credit
Agreement bear interest, at the option of the Company,  based on (a) a base rate
equal to the higher of the Bank of  America,  N.A.  prime rate (4.25  percent at
December  31,  2002) or a rate per annum  based on the  weighted  average of the
rates on  overnight  Federal  funds  transactions  with  members of the  Federal
Reserve System (1.16 percent at December 31, 2002), plus 50 basis points; plus a
eurodollar  margin  (the  "Eurodollar  Margin")  less 125  basis  points,  (b) a
Eurodollar  rate,  substantially  equal to the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
("LIBOR")  (1.38  percent at December  31, 2002 for 90 day  borrowings),  plus a
Eurodollar Margin, or (c) a fixed rate (for aggregate advances not exceeding $50
million)  as quoted by the Banks  pursuant  to a  request  by the  Company.  The
Eurodollar  Margin is based on a grid of the Company's  debt rating and ratio of
total  debt to  earnings  before  gain or loss  on the  disposition  of  assets;
interest  expense;  income  taxes;  depreciation,   depletion  and  amortization
expense;  exploration  and  abandonment  expense and other  noncash  charges and
expenses (the "Total Leverage  Ratio").  As of December 31, 2002, the Eurodollar
Margin was 137.5 basis points.


                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       The  Credit  Agreement  imposes  certain  restrictive  covenants  on  the
Company,  including the maintenance of a Total Leverage Ratio not to exceed 3.75
to  1.00;  maintenance  of an  annual  ratio  of the net  present  value  of the
Company's  oil and gas  properties  to total  debt of at least  1.25 to 1.00;  a
limitation on the Company's total debt; and,  restrictions on certain  payments.
The Company was in compliance  with all of its debt covenants as of December 31,
2002.

       As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had $27.2 million and $27.9
million  of  undrawn  letters  of  credit  issued  under the  Credit  Agreement,
respectively,  and unused Credit Agreement  borrowing capacity of $287.8 million
and $253.1 million, respectively.

       Senior  notes.   The   Company's  senior  notes  are  general   unsecured
obligations  ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured
indebtedness  of the Company and are senior in right of payment to all  existing
and future  subordinated  indebtedness of the Company.  The Company is a holding
company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries;  consequently,
the senior notes issuances are  structurally  subordinated to all obligations of
its   subsidiaries.   Interest  on  the   Company's   senior  notes  is  payable
semiannually.  Pioneer USA has fully and  unconditionally  guaranteed the senior
note  issuances.  See Note R for a discussion of Pioneer USA debt guarantees and
Consolidating Financial Statements.

       During  April 2002,  the Company  issued $150.0  million of 7-1/2 percent
senior notes due April 15, 2012 (the "7-1/2  percent senior  notes").  The 7-1/2
percent  senior  notes  were  issued at a price  equal to 100  percent  of their
principal amount and resulted in net proceeds to the Company, after underwriting
discounts,  commissions  and  costs of  issuance,  of  $146.7  million.  The net
proceeds from the issuance of the 7-1/2 percent senior notes were used to reduce
outstanding  borrowings  under the Credit  Agreement.  The 7-1/2 percent  senior
notes and 9-5/8 percent  senior notes  contain  various  restrictive  covenants,
including restrictions on the incurrence of additional  indebtedness and certain
payments defined within the associated indenture. The Company in compliance with
all of its senior note covenants as of December 31, 2002.

       Early extinguishment of debt and capital cost obligation. During the year
ended  December  31,  2002,  the  Company   repurchased  $47.1  million  of  its
outstanding  9-5/8 percent senior notes,  $13.9 million of its outstanding 8-7/8
percent  senior notes and repaid a $45.2 million  capital cost  obligation.  The
Company recognized extraordinary losses, net of taxes, of $6.7 million and $15.6
million associated with these debt extinguishments, respectively. See Note D for
additional  information  regarding the capital cost  obligation  that was repaid
during the year ended December 31, 2002.

       During  2001,  the  Company  redeemed  the  remaining  $22.5  million  of
outstanding 11-5/8 percent senior  subordinated  discount notes and $6.8 million
of outstanding  10-5/8  percent senior  subordinated  notes.  Additionally,  the
Company repurchased $38.7 million of its 9-5/8 percent senior notes during 2001.
Associated  with  these  debt   extinguishments,   the  Company   recognized  an
extraordinary loss, net of taxes, of $3.8 million during the year ended December
31, 2001.

       In  May 2000,  the Company  recognized an  extraordinary  loss  of  $12.3
million, net of tax, from the early extinguishment of its prior revolving credit
facility.

       See Note B for a discussion of the classification of gains  and losses on
the early extinguishment of debt after the adoption of SFAS 145 on January 1,
2003.

       Interest expense. The following amounts have been incurred and charged to
interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:


                                       57

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

<TABLE>

                                                                      Year ended December 31,
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 2002         2001         2000
                                                              ---------    ---------    -----------
                                                                         (in thousands)

<S>                                                           <C>          <C>          <C>
  Cash payments for interest................................  $ 113,827    $ 129,992    $  147,156
  Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans..      5,488        7,937         7,995
  Amortization of deferred hedge gains (see Note J).........    (14,108)      (2,750)          -
  Amortization of capitalized loan fees.....................      2,436        2,252         2,769
  Kansas ad valorem tax (see Note I)........................        375        1,250         1,935
  Net change in accruals....................................         48         (732)        2,097
                                                               --------     --------     ---------
    Interest incurred.......................................    108,066      137,949       161,952
    Less interest capitalized...............................    (12,251)      (5,991)          -
                                                               --------     --------     ---------
       Interest expense.....................................  $  95,815    $ 131,958    $  161,952
                                                               ========     ========      ========
</TABLE>

NOTE F.     Related Party Transactions

       Activities  with  affiliated  partnerships.  Prior to 1992,  the Company,
through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, sponsored 44 drilling partnerships, three
public income partnerships and 13 affiliated employee partnerships, all of which
were  formed  primarily  for the  purpose of drilling  and  completing  wells or
acquiring producing properties. During 2001, the Company completed the merger of
42 of the limited  partnerships  into  Pioneer  USA.  During  2000,  the Company
completed the merger of the 13 employee  partnerships into Pioneer USA. See Note
D for additional information regarding the mergers.

       During 1994,  1993 and  1992,  the  Company  formed a  Direct  Investment
Partnership  for the purpose of  permitting  selected  key  employees  to invest
directly,  on an unpromoted  basis,  in wells that the Company  drilled in those
years.  In  November  2000,  the  Company  exercised  its right under the Direct
Investment  Partnership  agreements to purchase each partner's interest in their
respective  Direct  Investment  Partnership.  The Company  paid $4.3  million to
complete the purchase, of which $887 thousand was paid to Company employees.

       The Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

       The  activities with  affiliated  partnerships  are  summarized  for  the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001
and 2000:
<TABLE>

                                                                   2002      2001      2000
                                                                  ------    ------    ------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>       <C>       <C>
     Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges
        in accordance with standard industry operating
        agreements...........................................     $1,495    $9,281    $9,222
     Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses....     $  127    $1,265    $1,550
</TABLE>

NOTE G.     Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

       Deferred compensation retirement plan.  In August 1997,  the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement
plan for the officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and
key employee is allowed to contribute up to 25 percent of their base salary. The
Company  will  then  provide  a  matching  contribution  of 100  percent  of the
officer's and key employee's contribution limited to the first 10 percent of the
officer's base salary and eight percent of the key employee's  base salary.  The
Company's matching contribution vests

                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


immediately.  A trust fund has been established by the Company to accumulate the
contributions   made  under  this  retirement   plan.  The  Company's   matching
contributions were $805 thousand, $652 thousand and $611 thousand for 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively.

       401(k) plan.  The Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. 401(k) and Matching
Plan (the "401(k) Plan") is a defined  contribution  plan established  under the
Internal  Revenue  Code Section 401. The 401(k) Plan was formed by the merger of
the Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan and the Pioneer  Natural
Resources USA, Inc.  Matching Plan on January 1, 2002. All regular full-time and
part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k)
Plan on the first day of the month  following  their date of hire.  Participants
may  contribute  an amount of not less than two percent nor more than 12 percent
of their annual salary into the 401(k) Plan. Matching  contributions are made to
the 401(k)  Plan in cash by Pioneer  USA in  amounts  equal to 200  percent of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each  participant's  account is credited with the  participant's  contributions,
their Matching  Contributions  and  allocations  of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.
Participants  are fully  vested in their  account  balances  except for Matching
Contributions and their proportionate share of 401(k) Plan earnings attributable
to Matching  Contributions,  which  proportionately vest over a four year period
that begins with the participant's date of hire. During the years ended December
31, 2002,  2001 and 2000, the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $4.1
million,  $3.4 million and $3.4 million,  respectively,  as a result of Matching
Contributions.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

       In  August  1997,  the  Company's  stockholders  approved  the  Long-Term
Incentive Plan,  which provides for the granting of incentive awards in the form
of stock options,  stock appreciation  rights,  performance units and restricted
stock to  directors,  officers  and  employees  of the  Company.  The  Long-Term
Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum number of shares of common
stock  equal to 10  percent  of the total  number  of  shares  of  common  stock
equivalents  outstanding less the total number of shares of common stock subject
to outstanding awards under any stock-based  plan for the directors, officers or
employees of the Company.

       The following table calculates the number of shares or  options available
for grant under the Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan as of  December 31, 2002
and 2001:
<TABLE>
                                                                            December 31,
                                                                      --------------------------
                                                                         2002           2001
                                                                      -----------    -----------

<S>                                                                   <C>            <C>
  Shares outstanding................................................  117,252,538    103,936,394
  Outstanding exercisable options or exercisable within 60 days.....    5,024,173      4,658,155
                                                                      -----------    -----------
                                                                      122,276,711    108,594,549
                                                                      ===========    ===========

  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.   12,227,671     10,859,455
  Less:  Outstanding awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan..........   (7,432,414)    (6,377,520)
         Outstanding options under predecessor incentive plans......     (488,671)      (548,551)
                                                                      -----------    -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant.........................    4,306,586      3,933,384
                                                                      ===========    ===========
</TABLE>

       Stock option awards.  The Company has  a program of  awarding semi-annual
stock options to its officers and employees and gives its non-employee directors
a choice to receive (i) 100 percent  restricted  stock,  (ii) 100 percent  stock
options,  (iii) 100 percent cash, or (iv) a combination  of 50/50 of any two, as
their annual  compensation.  This program provides for stock option awards at an
exercise price based upon the closing sales price of the Company's  common stock
on the day prior to the date of grant. Employee stock option awards vest over an
18 month or three year  schedule  and provide a five year  exercise  period from
each vesting date.  Non-employee  directors'  stock  options vest  quarterly and
provide for a five year  exercise  period from each  vesting  date.  The Company
granted 1,643,212; 1,627,071 and 1,439,035 options under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

                                       59

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Restricted stock awards.  During  the year  ended December 31, 2002,  the
Company  issued 654,445  restricted  shares of the Company's  common stock.  The
restricted  awards were issued as  compensation  to directors,  officers and key
employees of the Company. The restricted share awards include 18,545 shares that
were granted to directors  of the Company on May 13, 2002.  Director  awards for
3,302  shares vest on a quarterly  pro-rata  basis during the year ended May 13,
2003 and director  awards for 15,243 shares vest on May 13, 2005.  The remaining
635,900  restricted  shares were  awarded to officers  and key  employees of the
Company on August 12, 2002 and vest on August 12,  2005.  The  Company  recorded
$16.2 million of deferred  compensation in the  stockholder's  equity section of
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet associated with the restricted stock
awards,  which amount will be amortized to compensation expense over the vesting
periods of the awards. During the year ended December 31, 2002,  amortization of
the restricted stock awards increased the Company's compensation expense by $1.9
million.

       The following table reflects the  outstanding restricted stock awards and
activity related thereto for 2002:
<TABLE>

                                                                      For the Year Ended
                                                                       December 31, 2002
                                                                     ---------------------
                                                                                  Weighted
                                                                       Number      Average
                                                                     of Shares      Price
                                                                     ---------    --------
<S>                                                                  <C>          <C>
    Restricted Stock Awards:
       Restricted shares outstanding at beginning of year........         -        $   -
       Shares granted............................................     654,445      $ 24.72
       Lapse of restrictions.....................................      (1,652)     $ 24.60
                                                                     --------

    Restricted shares outstanding at end of year.................     652,793      $ 24.72
                                                                     ========
</TABLE>

      There were no restricted stock awards to directors or employees during the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000.

       Other stock based plans.  Prior to the  formation of the Company in 1997,
the Company's  predecessor companies had long-term incentive plans in place that
allowed the  predecessor  companies  to grant  incentive  awards  similar to the
provisions of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon formation of the Company,  all
awards under these plans were assumed by the Company with the provision  that no
additional awards be granted under the predecessor plans.

       SFAS  123  disclosures.    The  Company  applies   APB  25  and   related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the Company's net income and net income per share would have been
less than reported amounts.  See Note B comparisons of net income and net income
per share as reported and as adjusted for the pro forma  effects of  determining
compensation expense in accordance with SFAS 123.

       Under SFAS 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the date of grant   using  the  Black-Scholes   option  pricing  model  with the
following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2002, 2001 and 2000:
<TABLE>

                                             For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                               ----------------------------
                                                 2002      2001       2000
                                               -------   -------   --------

<S>                                            <C>       <C>       <C>
        Risk-free interest rate.............     2.80%     4.13%      5.66%
        Expected life.......................   5 years   5 years    5 years
        Expected volatility.................       45%       49%        50%
        Expected dividend yield.............      -         -          -
</TABLE>


                                       60

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       A summary of the  Company's stock option plans as of  December 31,  2002,
2001 and 2000, and changes during the years ended on those dates,  are presented
below:
<TABLE>

                                      For the Year Ended      For the Year Ended      For the Year Ended
                                       December 31, 2002       December 31, 2001       December 31, 2000
                                     ---------------------   ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                  Weighted                Weighted                Weighted
                                       Number     Average     Number      Average      Number     Average
                                     of Shares     Price     of Shares     Price     of Shares     Price
                                     ----------   --------   ----------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding, beginning of year..    6,926,071   $  18.16    6,510,559   $  18.10    6,241,889   $  19.45
    Options granted...............    1,643,212   $  21.14    1,627,071   $  18.29    1,439,035   $  10.32
    Options forfeited.............     (154,717)  $  26.27     (566,189)  $  25.83     (798,058)  $  18.05
    Options exercised.............   (1,146,274)  $  12.19     (645,370)  $  11.14     (372,307)  $  10.78
                                     ----------              ----------              ----------
  Outstanding, end of year........    7,268,292   $  19.60    6,926,071   $  18.16    6,510,559   $  18.10
                                     ==========              ==========              ==========

  Exercisable at end of year......    4,269,659   $  20.15    4,005,762   $  20.82    3,897,187   $  23.47
                                     ==========              ==========              ==========
Weighted average fair value of
  options granted during the
  year............................   $     8.87              $     8.65              $     4.88
                                      =========               =========               =========
</TABLE>

       The following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2002:
<TABLE>

                                      Options Outstanding                              Options Exercisable
                   -------------------------------------------------------    --------------------------------------
                        Number          Weighted Average      Weighted                                  Weighted
   Range of         Outstanding at         Remaining           Average         Number Exercisable        Average
Exercise Prices    December 31, 2002    Contractual Life    Exercise Price    at December 31, 2002    Exercise Price
- ---------------    -----------------    ----------------    --------------    --------------------    --------------

<S>      <C>             <C>                <C>                <C>                     <C>               <C>
    $  5-11              800,715            3.9 years          $   8.35                619,504           $   8.49
    $ 12-18            3,805,527            4.9 years          $  16.69              1,714,584           $  15.42
    $ 19-26            1,288,548            4.9 years          $  24.13                562,069           $  23.44
    $ 27-30            1,323,242            1.1 years          $  29.59              1,323,242           $  29.59
    $ 31-52               50,260            2.6 years          $  39.88                 50,260           $  39.88
                     -----------                                                  -----------
                       7,268,292                                                    4,269,659
                     ===========                                                  ===========
</TABLE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       The Company has an Employee Stock  Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") that allows
eligible  employees  to  annually  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock  at a
discounted price. Officers of the Company are not eligible to participate in the
ESPP.  Contributions  to the ESPP are limited to 15 percent of an employee's pay
(subject  to  certain  ESPP  limits)  during  the nine  month  offering  period.
Participants in the ESPP purchase the Company's  common stock at a price that is
15 percent below the closing sales price of the Company's common stock on either
the first day or the last day of each annual offering period,  whichever closing
sales price is lower.

NOTE H.     Issuance of Common Stock

       During  April 2002,  the  Company  completed a  public  offering of  11.5
million  shares of its common stock at $21.50 per share.  Associated  therewith,
the  Company  received  $236.0  million  of net  proceeds  after the  payment of
issuance  costs.  The Company used the net proceeds from the public  offering to
fund  the  acquisition  of the  Falcon  assets  and  associated  acreage  in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the West Panhandle gas field acquisitions. See Note
D for information regarding these acquisitions.


                                       61

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


NOTE I.     Commitments and Contingencies

       Severance agreements.  The Company has  entered into severance agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries  and bonuses for the  Company's  officers  are set by the  Compensation
Committee for the parent company  officers and by the  Management  Committee for
subsidiary  company  officers  and key  employees.  These  committees  can grant
increases or reductions to base salary at their  discretion.  The current annual
salaries for the parent company  officers,  the subsidiary  company officers and
key employees covered under such agreements total approximately $18.2 million.

       Indemnifications.  The Company has  indemnified its directors and certain
of its officers, employees and agents with respect to claims and damages arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

       Legal actions.  The Company is  party to various legal actions incidental
to its business, including, but not limited to, the proceedings described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-quarter   basis  and will  adjust its
litigation  reserves  as  appropriate  to  reflect  the then  current  status of
litigation.

       Alford.  The Company is party to a 1993 class action lawsuit filed in the
26th Judicial District Court of Stevens County, Kansas by two classes of royalty
owners,  one for  each  of the  Company's  gathering  systems  connected  to the
Company's Satanta gas plant. The case was relatively inactive for several years.
In early 2000, the plaintiffs  amended their  pleadings to add claims  regarding
the field  compression  installed by the Company in the 1990's.  The lawsuit now
has two material claims.  First, the plaintiffs assert that the expenses related
to the field  compression are a "cost of production" for which plaintiffs cannot
be charged their  proportionate  share under the  applicable oil and gas leases.
Second,  the  plaintiffs  claim they are entitled to 100 percent of the value of
the helium extracted at the Company's  Satanta gas plant. If the plaintiffs were
to prevail on the above two claims in their  entirety,  it is possible  that the
Company's liability could reach $25 million, plus prejudgment interest. However,
the Company believes it has valid defenses to plaintiffs'  claims,  has paid the
plaintiffs  properly under their  respective oil and gas leases,  and intends to
vigorously defend itself.

       The Company  believes the cost of the field compression is not a "cost of
production",  but is rather an expense of transporting  the gas to the Company's
Satanta gas plant for processing,  where valuable hydrocarbon liquids and helium
are extracted from the gas. The plaintiffs benefit from such extractions and the
Company believes that charging the plaintiffs with their  proportionate share of
such  transportation and processing  expenses is consistent with Kansas law. The
Company has also vigorously  defended against  plaintiffs' claims to 100 percent
of the value of the helium  extracted,  and  believes  that in  accordance  with
applicable law, it has properly accounted to the plaintiffs for their fractional
royalty  share  of  the  helium  under  the  specified  royalty  clauses  of the
respective oil and gas leases.

       The factual  evidence  in the  case  was  presented to  the 26th Judicial
District Court without a jury in December 2001. Oral arguments were heard by the
court in April 2002,  and  although  the court has not yet entered a judgment or
findings,  it could do so at any time. The Company strongly denies the existence
of any material  underpayment  to  plaintiffs  and believes it presented  strong
evidence at trial to support its  positions.  The Company has not yet determined
the  amount of  damages,  if any,  that  would be  payable  if the  lawsuit  was
determined  adversely  to the  Company.  Although  the  amount of any  resulting
liability  could  have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of
operations  for the  quarterly  reporting  period  in which  such  liability  is
recorded,  the  Company  does not  expect  that any such  liability  will have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated  financial position as a whole or on
its liquidity, capital resources or future annual results of operations.


                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows
a "severance,  production or similar" tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the maximum  lawful price for gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission ("FERC") ruling that Kansas ad valorem tax was such a tax, one of the
Company's  predecessor  entities collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition
to the otherwise  maximum  lawful  price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the
United  States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia  ("D.C.  Circuit"),
which held in June 1988 that the FERC failed to provide a reasoned basis for its
findings and remanded the case to the FERC for further consideration.

       On December 1, 1993, the FERC issued an order reversing its prior ruling,
but  limiting  the effect of its  decision to Kansas ad valorem  taxes for sales
made on or after June 28, 1988.  The FERC  clarified the  effective  date of its
decision by an order dated May 18, 1994. The order  clarified that the effective
date applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28,  1988,  not sales made on or
after that date. Numerous parties filed appeals on the FERC's action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various gas producers challenged the FERC's orders on two grounds: (1)
that  the  Kansas  ad  valorem  tax,  properly  understood,   does  qualify  for
reimbursement  under the NGPA; and (2) the FERC's ruling  should,  in any event,
have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties challenged the FERC's orders on
the grounds that the FERC's  ruling  should have been applied  retroactively  to
December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment of the NGPA and  producers  should
have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

       The D.C. Circuit issued its decision on August 2,  1996, which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production since October 4, 1983, as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were denied on November 6, 1996.  Various gas producers  subsequently
filed a petition  for writ of  certiori  with the United  States  Supreme  Court
seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills rendered on or
after  June 28,  1988 (the  effective  date  originally  selected  by the FERC).
Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori  seeking to
impose refund  liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were denied on
May 12, 1997.

       The Company  and other  producers filed petitions for adjustment with the
FERC on June 24, 1997.  The Company was seeking waiver or set-off from FERC with
respect  to that  portion  of the  refund  associated  with  (i)  non-recoupable
royalties,  (ii)  non-recoupable  Kansas property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher prices  collected,  and (iii) interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file  claims on refunds  sought  from  producers  and  refunds  totaling
approximately $30.2 million were made against the Company.  Through December 31,
2002, the Company has settled $21.7 million of the original  claim  amounts,  of
which  $11.8  million  was  settled  during  2002.  The  carrying  value  of the
obligation  settled during 2002 exceeded the  settlement  paid by the Company by
$3.5 million.  Accordingly,  the Company recognized other income of $3.5 million
during 2002.  As of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001,  the Company had on
deposit  $10.6  million  and  $24.5  million,  respectively,  including  accrued
interest,  in an  escrow  account  and  had  corresponding  obligations  for the
remaining  claims  recorded in other  current  liabilities  in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance Sheets.  The Company  believes that the escrowed  amounts,
plus accrued interest, will be sufficient to settle the remaining claims.

       Lease agreements.  The  Company  leases  offshore  production facilities,
equipment and office facilities under  noncancellable  operating leases on which
rental  expense  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2002,  2001  and 2000 was
approximately $6.7 million, $6.6 million and $7.0 million, respectively.  Future
minimum lease commitments under noncancellable  operating leases at December 31,
2002 are as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>

<S>    <C>                                               <C>
       2003..........................................    $  19,364
       2004..........................................    $  41,553
       2005..........................................    $  39,375
       2006..........................................    $  32,266
       2007..........................................    $  26,258
       Thereafter....................................    $  36,338
</TABLE>


                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Transportation agreements. The Company's wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary
is a party to pipeline  transportation service agreements,  with remaining terms
of  approximately  13 years,  whereby it has  committed to transport a specified
volume of gas each year from  Canada to a point in Chicago,  Illinois.  Such gas
volumes are  comprised of a significant  portion of the  Company's  Canadian net
production, augmented with certain volumes purchased at market prices in Canada.
The  committed  volumes  to be  transported  under the  pipeline  transportation
service  agreements  are  approximately  84 MMcf of gas per day during  2003 and
decline  to  approximately  80 MMcf of gas per day by the end of the  commitment
term.  The net gas marketing  gains or losses  resulting from  purchasing  third
party gas in Canada and  selling it in Chicago are  recorded as other  income or
other  expense  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations.
Associated with these agreements,  the Company  recognized $2.6 million and $9.9
million  of gas  marketing  losses  in other  expenses  during  2002  and  2001,
respectively.

NOTE J.     Derivative Financial Instruments

Hedge Derivatives

       The Company,  from time to time,  uses  derivative  instruments to manage
interest rate, commodity price and currency exchange rate risks.

       Fair value hedges.  The Company  monitors  capital  markets and trends to
identify  opportunities  to enter into interest rate swaps to minimize its costs
of capital.  As of December  31,  2002,  the Company was not a party to any fair
value hedges.  As of December 31, 2001, the carrying value of the Company's fair
value hedges was a liability of $19.6 million.

       During  April 2000 and  May 2001,  the Company entered into interest rate
swap  agreements to hedge the fair value of the Company's  8-7/8 percent  senior
notes and 8-1/4 percent  senior notes,  respectively.  The terms of the interest
rate swap agreements  matched the notional  amounts and scheduled  maturities of
the  bonds;  required  the  counterparties  to pay the  Company  a fixed  annual
interest rate equal to the stated bond coupon rates on the notional amounts; and
required the Company to pay the counterparties variable annual interest rates on
the  notional  amounts  equal to the  periodic  six-month  LIBOR  plus  weighted
average  margin  rates of 178.2 basis points and 238.1 basis points on the 8-7/8
percent  senior  notes and 8-1/4  percent  senior  notes;  respectively.  During
September  2001,  the Company  terminated  its 8-7/8  percent and 8-1/4  percent
interest  rate  swaps for $23.3  million  of cash  proceeds,  including  accrued
interest.

       During April 2002  the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements
to hedge the fair value of the Company's  8-7/8 percent senior notes and, during
November 2001, the Company  entered into interest rate swap  agreements to hedge
the fair value of its 6-1/2 percent senior notes and 8-1/4 percent senior notes.
The terms of the interest rate swap agreements  matched the notional amounts and
scheduled  maturities  of the  bonds;  required  the  counterparties  to pay the
Company fixed annual interest rates equal to the stated bond coupon rates on the
notional amounts;  and required the Company to pay the  counterparties  variable
annual  interest rates on the notional  amounts equal to the periodic  six-month
LIBOR plus  weighted  average  margin  rates of 397 basis  points,  202.2  basis
points,  and 337 basis points on the 8-7/8 percent  senior notes,  6-1/2 percent
senior notes and 8-1/4 percent  senior  notes;  respectively.  During  September
2002, the Company terminated these interest rate swaps for $36.3 million of cash
proceeds, including accrued interest.

       As of December 31,  2002,  the carrying  value of the Company's long-term
debt in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets included $35.7 million of
incremental  liability  attributable  to the  unamortized  deferred  hedge gains
realized  from the  terminations  of the Company's  fair value hedge  agreements
during 2002 and 2001. The amortization of these deferred hedge gains reduced the
Company's reported interest expense by $14.1 million and $2.8 million during the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       The following  table sets  forth the  scheduled  amortization of deferred
hedge  gains  on  terminated  fair  value  hedges  that  will be  recognized  as
reductions in the Company's future interest expense:

<TABLE>
                                            First     Second      Third     Fourth     Outstanding
                                           Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter       Total
                                           -------    -------    -------    -------    -----------
                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
  2003 hedge gain amortization...........  $ 5,937    $ 5,564    $ 4,735    $  4,161     $ 20,397
  2004 hedge gain amortization...........  $ 3,518    $ 3,122    $ 2,458    $  2,105       11,203
  Remaining net gains to be amortized
    through 2008.........................                                                   4,072
                                                                                          -------
                                                                                         $ 35,672
                                                                                          =======
</TABLE>


      The terms of the  fair value hedges  described above perfectly matched the
terms of the  underlying  senior  notes.  Thus,  the Company did not exclude any
component  of the  derivatives'  gains or losses from the  measurement  of hedge
effectiveness.

       Cash flow hedges. The Company utilizes, from time to time, commodity swap
and  collar  contracts  to (i)  reduce  the  effect of price  volatility  on the
commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's  annual
capital  budgeting and expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce  commodity price risk
associated with certain capital projects. The Company has also utilized interest
rate swap  agreements  to reduce the effect of interest  rate  volatility on the
Company's  variable  rate  line of  credit  indebtedness  and  forward  currency
exchange  agreements  to reduce the  effect of U.S.  dollar to  Canadian  dollar
exchange rate volatility.

       Oil.  All material sales contracts governing the Company's oil production
have  been tied  directly  or  indirectly  to the New York  Mercantile  Exchange
prices.  The  following  table sets forth the  Company's  outstanding  oil hedge
contracts  and the  weighted  average  NYMEX  prices for those  contracts  as of
December 31, 2002:
<TABLE>
                                                                                         Yearly
                                            First     Second      Third     Fourth     Outstanding
                                           Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter       Total
                                           -------    -------    -------    -------    -----------
<S>                                        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
  Daily oil production:
      2003 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl)....................    19,900     23,000     23,000     23,000       22,236
        Price per Bbl...................   $ 24.59    $ 24.44    $ 24.40    $ 24.40      $ 24.45

      2004 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl)....................    14,000     14,000     14,000     14,000       14,000
        Price per Bbl...................   $ 23.11    $ 23.11    $ 23.11    $ 23.11      $ 23.11
</TABLE>

       The Company  reports average oil  prices per Bbl including the effects of
oil quality  adjustments  and the net effect of oil hedges.  The following table
sets forth the Company's oil prices, both reported (including hedge results) and
realized  (excluding  hedge  results),  and the net effect of settlements of oil
price hedges to revenue:
<TABLE>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                             -----------------------------
                                                               2002       2001       2000
                                                             -------    -------    -------

<S>                                                          <C>        <C>        <C>
     Average price reported per Bbl......................    $ 22.89    $ 24.12    $ 24.01
     Average price realized per Bbl......................    $ 22.95    $ 23.88    $ 28.81
     Addition (reduction) to revenue (in millions).......    $   (.8)   $   3.0    $ (60.1)
</TABLE>


                                       65

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


        Natural gas liquids prices.   During the years ended  December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.

       Gas prices.  The Company employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between  NYMEX  prices and actual index  prices.  The
following table sets forth the Company's outstanding gas hedge contracts and the
weighted average index prices for those contracts as of December 31, 2002:
<TABLE>

                                                                                         Yearly
                                     First       Second        Third       Fourth      Outstanding
                                    Quarter      Quarter      Quarter      Quarter       Average
                                   ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    -----------
<S>                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Daily gas production:
   2003 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)...............     230,000      230,000      230,000      230,000       230,000
     Index price per MMBtu......   $    3.76    $    3.76    $    3.76    $    3.76     $    3.76

   2004 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)...............     180,000      180,000      180,000      180,000       180,000
     Index price per MMBtu......   $    3.81    $    3.81    $    3.81    $    3.81     $    3.81

   2005 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)...............      10,000       10,000       10,000       10,000        10,000
     Index price per MMBtu......   $    3.70    $    3.70    $    3.70    $    3.70     $    3.70

   2006 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)...............      20,000       20,000       20,000       20,000        20,000
     Index price per MMBtu......   $    3.75    $    3.75    $    3.75    $    3.75     $    3.75

   2007 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)...............      20,000       20,000       20,000       20,000        20,000
     Index price per MMBtu......   $    3.75    $    3.75    $    3.75    $    3.75     $    3.75
</TABLE>

       The Company reports  average gas  prices per Mcf including the effects of
Btu content, gas processing and shrinkage  adjustments and the net effect of gas
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's gas prices,  both reported
(including hedge results) and realized  (excluding  hedge results),  and the net
effect of settlements of gas price hedges to revenue:
<TABLE>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                            ----------------------------
                                                             2002       2001       2000
                                                            ------     ------     ------

<S>                                                         <C>        <C>        <C>
     Average price reported per Mcf......................   $ 2.49     $ 3.23     $ 2.81
     Average price realized per Mcf......................   $ 2.38     $ 3.20     $ 3.03
     Addition/(reduction) to revenue (in millions).......   $ 13.6     $  3.0     $(29.0)
</TABLE>

        Interest rates.  During the year  ended  December 31, 2001,  the Company
entered into interest rate swap agreements and designated the swap agreements as
being cash flow hedges of the interest rate volatility associated with a portion
of the  Company's  variable rate line of credit  indebtedness.  The terms of the
interest rate swap agreements  provided for an aggregate  notional amount of $55
million of debt; commenced on May 21, 2001 and matured on May 20, 2002; required
the  counterparties  to pay the  Company a variable  rate equal to the  periodic
six-month  LIBOR plus 125 basis  points;  and,  required  the Company to pay the
counterparties  a weighted  average  annual rate of 5.43 percent on the notional
amount.  The  Company  recognized  interest  expense of $447  thousand  and $185
thousand  associated with these interest rate swap  agreements  during the years
ended  December  31,  2002 and 2001,  respectively.  The Company  recognized  no
ineffectiveness  associated with changes in the fair values of these  derivative
instruments.


                                       66

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


        Foreign currency rates.  During 2001,  the Company  entered into forward
agreements  to exchange an aggregate  $24.8  million  U.S.  dollars for Canadian
dollars at a  weighted  average  exchange  rate of .6266  U.S.  dollars  for 1.0
Canadian  dollar.  These  agreements  were designated as hedges of the Company's
exchange  rate risk  associated  with  Canadian  sales of gas under U.S.  dollar
denominated sales agreements.  The Company  recognized  settlement gains of $249
thousand associated with these forward agreements during the year ended December
31, 2002, which increased the Company's  reported gas price. The Company did not
recognize  any  ineffectiveness  associated  with  changes in the fair values of
these derivative instruments.  Except for one forward agreement that represented
an asset of $15 thousand to the Company on December 31, 2002,  these  agreements
matured during the year ended December 31, 2002.

        Hedge  ineffectiveness  and  excluded  items.  During  the  years  ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company recognized other expense of $1.7 million
and $9.1 million, respectively,  related to the ineffective portions of its cash
flow hedging instruments.  Additionally, based on SFAS 133 interpretive guidance
that  was in  effect  prior  to  April  2001,  the  Company  excluded  from  the
measurement  of hedge  effectiveness  changes in the time and  volatility  value
components  of  collar  contracts  designated  as cash flow  hedges.  Associated
therewith,  the Company  recorded other expense of $2.4 million during the three
month period ended March 31, 2001. In April 2001, the Company  discontinued  the
exclusion  of  time  value  and  volatility   from  the   measurement  of  hedge
effectiveness.

        Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income -  deferred  hedge  gains  and
losses,  net. As described in Note B, the Company records the effective portions
of  deferred  cash flow hedge gains and losses in AOCI - deferred  hedge  gains,
net. Once the underlying  hedged  transaction  occurs the deferred hedge gain or
loss is reclassified from AOCI - deferred hedge gains, net to earnings. If it is
determined that the underlying  hedged  transaction is not likely to occur,  the
deferred  hedge gain or loss is  reclassified  from AOCI - deferred hedge gains,
net to other income or other expense during the period in which it is determined
that the underlying  hedged  transaction is not likely to occur.  As of December
31, 2002 and 2001,  AOCI - deferred hedge gains,  net  represented  net deferred
gains of $9.6  million  and $201.0  million,  respectively.  The AOCI - deferred
hedge gains, net balance as of December 31, 2002 was comprised of $107.8 million
of unrealized  deferred hedge losses on the effective portions of open commodity
cash flow hedges and $117.4  million of net deferred  gains on  terminated  cash
flow hedges.  The AOCI - deferred  hedge  gains,  net balance as of December 31,
2001 was  comprised  of  $177.7  million  of  unrealized  deferred  gains on the
effective  portions of open commodity,  interest rate and forward  currency rate
cash flow hedges and $23.3 million of net deferred gains on terminated cash flow
hedges.  The decrease in AOCI - deferred hedge gains,  net during the year ended
December 31, 2002 was primarily  attributable  to increases in future  commodity
prices relative to the commodity  prices  stipulated in the hedge agreements and
the  reclassification  of  deferred  hedge  gains to net  income as  derivatives
matured  by  their  terms.  The  unrealized  deferred  hedge  gains  and  losses
associated   with  open  cash  flow  hedges  remain   subject  to  market  price
fluctuations until the positions are either settled under the terms of the hedge
agreements or terminated prior to settlement.  The net deferred gains and losses
on terminated cash flow hedges are fixed.

        During the twelve month  period ending  December 31,  2003,  the Company
expects to reclassify $73.6 million of net deferred losses  associated with open
cash flow hedges and $72.1 million of net deferred gains on terminated cash flow
hedges from AOCI - deferred hedge gains, net to oil and gas revenue.

        The following  table  sets  forth  the  scheduled  reclassifications  of
deferred  hedge gains on terminated  cash flow hedges that will be recognized in
the Company's future oil and gas revenues:
<TABLE>
                                               First      Second        Third       Fourth       Total
                                              Quarter     Quarter      Quarter      Quarter       Year
                                             --------    ---------    --------     --------    ---------
                                                                   (in thousands)

<S>   <C>                                    <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
      2003 deferred hedge gains.........     $ 18,123    $  18,043    $ 18,021     $ 17,864    $  72,051
      2004 deferred hedge gains.........     $ 11,206    $  11,156    $ 11,226     $ 11,175       44,763
      2005 deferred hedge gains.........     $    149    $     153    $    156     $    158          616
                                                                                                --------
                                                                                               $ 117,430
                                                                                                ========
</TABLE>

                                       67

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000



Non-hedge Derivatives

       Btu swap agreements.  The Company is a  party to Btu swap agreements that
mature at the end of 2004.  The Btu swap  agreements  do not  qualify  for hedge
accounting  treatment.  The  Company  recorded  mark-to-market   adjustments  to
decrease the carrying  value of the Btu swap liability by $.7 million during the
year ended  December 31, 2001 and to increase the carrying value of the Btu swap
liability by $14.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2000.

       During  the year  ended  December 31,  2001,  the  Company  entered  into
offsetting Btu swap  agreements that fixed the Company's  remaining  obligations
associated with the Btu swap  agreements.  The  undiscounted  future  settlement
obligations  of the Company under the Btu swap  agreements  are $7.2 million per
year for each of 2003 and 2004.

       Foreign currency agreements. Prior to their maturity in 2000, the Company
was a party to a series of forward  foreign  exchange rate swap  agreements that
exchanged Canadian dollars for U.S. dollars.  These contracts did not qualify as
hedges.  The  Company  recorded a  mark-to-market  adjustment  to  increase  the
carrying value of the foreign  exchange swap  liabilities by $1.9 million during
the year ended December 31, 2000.

       Other non-hedge commodity derivatives. During the year ended December 31,
1999, the Company sold call options that provided the  counterparties  an option
to exercise  calls  either on 10,000  Bbls per day of oil, at a strike  price of
$20.00 per Bbl, or on 100,000 MMBtu per day of gas, at a weighted average strike
price of $2.75 per MMBtu.  These contracts,  which matured during the year ended
December 31, 2000, did not qualify for hedge accounting  treatment.  The Company
recorded  mark-to-market  adjustments  to  increase  the  carrying  value of the
associated  contract  liability by $42.0 million  during the year ended December
31, 2000.

NOTE K.     Major Customers and Derivative Counterparties

       Sales to major customers.  The Company's  share of oil and gas production
is sold to various  purchasers.  The Company is of the opinion  that the loss of
any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company
to sell its oil and gas production.

       The following customers individually  accounted for 10 percent or more of
the consolidated oil,  NGL and gas revenues of the Company during one or more of
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

                                                 Percentage of Consolidated
                                                  Oil, NGL and Gas Revenues
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                2002         2001        2000
                                              --------     --------    --------

     Williams Energy Services.............         7           11         13
     Anadarko Petroleum Corporation.......         7           10          6

       At December 31,  2002,  the  amounts  receivable  from  Williams  Energy
Services  and  Anadarko  Petroleum  Corporation  were  $13.4  million  and $11.7
million, respectively,  which are included in the caption "Accounts receivable -
trade" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

       Derivative counterparties.  The Company uses  credit and  other financial
criteria to evaluate the credit  standing of, and to select,  counterparties  to
its derivative  instruments.  Although the Company does not obtain collateral or
otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit
risk is mitigated by the Company's  credit risk policies and  procedures.  As of
December 31, 2002 and 2001,  the Company has $7.6 million of  derivative  assets
for which Enron North  America Corp was the Company's  counterparty.  Associated
therewith,  the  Company  recognized  bad debt  expense of $.4  million and $6.0
million during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001,  respectively,  which
amounts  are  included  in  other  expense  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

                                       68

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


NOTE L.        Interest and Other Income

       The Company recorded  interest and other income of  $11.2 million,  $21.8
million and $25.8  million  during the years ended  December 31, 2002,  2001 and
2000.  The major  categories  of the  Company's  interest  and other  income are
summarized in the following table:
<TABLE>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                            --------------------------------
                                                              2002        2001        2000
                                                            --------    --------    --------
                                                                     (in thousands)

<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
   Kansas ad valorem escrow adjustments (see Note I)......  $  3,500    $  1,100    $  1,000
   Excise tax income......................................     2,398       4,126       6,915
   Production payment income..............................       -         5,552       1,262
   Interest income........................................       642       2,128       3,906
   Seismic data sales.....................................        87       1,841       1,148
   Foreign exchange gains.................................       142         223         220
   Other income...........................................     4,453       6,808      11,324
                                                             -------     -------     -------
                                                            $ 11,222    $ 21,778    $ 25,775
                                                             =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>

NOTE M.     Asset Divestitures

       During the  years ended  December 31,  2002,  2001 and 2000,  the Company
completed asset divestitures for net proceeds of $118.9 million,  $113.5 million
and $102.7 million,  respectively.  Associated  therewith,  the Company recorded
gains on disposition  of assets of $4.4 million,  $7.7 million and $34.2 million
during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

       Hedge derivative divestitures.  During the years ended December 31,  2002
and 2001,  the Company  terminated,  prior to their  scheduled  maturity,  hedge
derivatives  for  cash  sales  proceeds  of $91.3  million  and  $85.4  million,
respectively.  Net gains from these  divestitures  were  deferred  and are being
amortized  over the original  contract  lives of the  terminated  derivatives as
reductions to interest expense or increases to oil and gas revenues.  See Note J
for more information regarding deferred gains on terminated hedge derivatives.

       Available  for  sale  securities  divestitures.  During  the  year  ended
December  31,  2000,  the Company  sold  3,370,982  shares of common  stock of a
non-affiliated  entity  for  $59.7  million,  recording  an  associated  gain on
disposition  of assets of $34.3  million.  During  2001,  the  Company  sold its
remaining 613,250 shares of the non-affiliated  entity for $12.7 million of cash
proceeds and  recognized an  associated  gain on  disposition  of assets of $8.1
million.

       Other  United States  divestitures.  During the year  ended  December 31,
2002, the Company received $20.9 million of proceeds from the cash settlement of
a gas balancing receivable, $4.7 million from the sale of certain gas properties
located in Oklahoma and $1.8 million  from the sale of other  corporate  assets.
Associated  with these  divestitures,  the  Company  recorded  net gains of $4.2
million.

       During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company sold other corporate
assets for $3.0 million of proceeds.  Associated  with the sale of these assets,
the Company recorded a net gain of $.4 million.

       During the year  ended December 31,  2000,  the  Company  sold  an office
building in Midland,  Texas,  certain other assets and non-strategic oil and gas
properties  primarily  located in the United States Gulf Coast and Mid Continent
areas.  Associated with these divestitures,  the Company realized net divestment
proceeds of $43.0  million and recorded a net loss on  disposition  of assets of
$.4 million.

       Other  international  divestitures.  During the  year ended  December 31,
2002,  other Canadian and Argentine  corporate assets were sold for $.2 million.
The  Company  recorded   $.2  million  of  net   gains  associated  with   those

                                       69

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


divestitures.  During the year ended  December  31, 2001,  the Company  received
$12.0 million of proceeds from the sale of certain oil  properties in Canada and
$.4 million of proceeds from the sale of other international assets.  Associated
with these transactions, the Company recognized a net loss of $.8 million.

NOTE N.     Other Expense

       The following  table  provides  the  components  of the  Company's  other
expense during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:
<TABLE>
                                                                     Years Ended December 31,
                                                                 --------------------------------
                                                                   2002        2001        2000
                                                                 --------    --------    --------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                              <C>         <C>         <C>
     Derivative ineffectiveness and mark-to-market
        provisions (see Note J)................................  $  1,664    $ 11,458    $ 58,518
     Gas marketing losses (see Note I).........................     2,556       9,850         -
     Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange losses (a)....     7,623       8,474          80
     Bad debt expense (see Note K).............................       129       6,152          65
     Other charges.............................................     5,284       3,654       8,568
                                                                  -------     -------     -------
                                                                 $ 17,256    $ 39,588    $ 67,231
<FN>
                                                                 =======     =======     =======
- ----------
(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency  remeasurement  and transaction gains and losses.
     In early January  2002,  the Argentine  government  severed the  one-to-one
     relationship  between the value of the Argentine peso and the U.S.  dollar,
     which is the  functional  currency of the Company's  Argentine  operations.
     Consequently,  the Company has  remeasured  its Argentine  peso-denominated
     monetary net assets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and adjusted its lease
     and well equipment  inventory  balances to market values as of December 31,
     2001. Associated therewith,  the Company recognized charges of $6.9 million
     and $7.7 million during 2002 and 2001, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE O.     Income Taxes

       The Company accounts  for income  taxes in accordance with the provisions
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes".  The Company and its eligible  subsidiaries  file a consolidated  United
States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries  are not eligible to be
included  in the  consolidated  United  States  federal  income  tax  return and
separate  provisions for income taxes have been determined for these entities or
groups of entities. The tax returns and the amount of taxable income or loss are
subject to  examination  by United  States  federal,  state and  foreign  taxing
authorities.  Current and estimated tax payments of $2.3 million,  $11.7 million
and $4.6  million were made during the years ended  December 31, 2002,  2001 and
2000, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, the
Company's income tax provision  (benefit) and amounts separately  allocated were
attributable to the following items:
<TABLE>
                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                     --------------------------------
                                                       2002        2001        2000
                                                     --------    --------    --------
                                                              (in thousands)

<S>                                                  <C>         <C>         <C>
  Income (loss) before extraordinary items.......    $  5,063    $  4,016    $ (6,000)
  Changes in other comprehensive income:
    Deferred hedge gains and losses..............      (2,561)      2,293         -
    Cumulative translation adjustment............         (20)       (121)       (200)
                                                      -------     -------     -------
                                                     $  2,482    $  6,188    $ (6,200)
                                                      =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>


                                       70

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Income  tax  provision  (benefit)  attributable  to  income (loss) before
extraordinary items consists of the following:
<TABLE>
                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                               -----------------------------------
                                                  2002         2001        2000
                                               ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
     Current:
       U.S. state and local................    $     209    $   1,080    $     -
       Foreign.............................        2,066       10,585        4,600
                                                --------     --------     --------
                                                   2,275       11,665        4,600
                                                --------     --------     --------
     Deferred:
       Foreign.............................        2,788       (7,649)     (10,600)
                                                --------     --------     --------
     Total.................................    $   5,063    $   4,016    $  (6,000)
                                                ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

       Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary items consists of the
following:
<TABLE>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                               -----------------------------------
                                                  2002         2001        2000
                                               ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
     Income (loss) before income taxes
      and extraordinary items:
       U.S. federal........................    $  58,821    $ 140,045    $ 138,941
       Foreign.............................       (4,699)     (32,280)      19,558
                                                --------     --------     --------
                                               $  54,122    $ 107,765    $ 158,499
                                                ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

       Reconciliations of the United States federal statutory rate to the
Company's effective rate for income (loss) before extraordinary items are as
follows:
<TABLE>
                                                2002       2001     2000
                                              -------    ------    ------

<S>                                           <C>        <C>       <C>
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate.......      35.0      35.0      35.0
     Valuation allowance...................     (23.7)    (27.5)    (30.9)
     Rate differential on foreign
      operations...........................       (.1)     (3.2)     (2.9)
     Other.................................      (1.8)      (.6)     (5.0)
                                              -------    ------    ------
     Consolidated effective tax rate.......       9.4       3.7      (3.8)
                                              =======    ======    ======
</TABLE>

       The tax  effects of  temporary  differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                                December 31,
                                                           ----------------------
                                                              2002         2001
                                                           ---------    ---------
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards.....................    $ 299,495    $ 341,206
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.........        1,565        1,565
  Other................................................      143,894       44,745
                                                            --------     --------
    Total deferred tax assets..........................      444,954      387,516
  Valuation allowance..................................     (277,217)    (183,122)
                                                            --------     --------
    Net deferred tax assets............................      167,737      204,394
                                                            --------     --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to
    differences in basis, depletion and the
    deduction of intangible drilling costs
    for tax purposes...................................       80,364      115,524
  Other................................................        5,393       11,919
                                                            --------     --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities.....................       85,757      127,443
                                                            --------     --------
    Net deferred tax asset.............................    $  81,980    $  76,951
                                                            ========     ========
</TABLE>


                                       71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


       Realization of  deferred tax  assets  associated  with net operating loss
carryforwards   ("NOLs")  and  other  credit  carryforwards  is  dependent  upon
generating  sufficient  taxable  income prior to their  expiration.  The Company
believes  that  there is a risk that  certain  of these  NOLs and  other  credit
carryforwards may expire unused and,  accordingly,  has a valuation allowance of
$277.2  million  against  the  carryforwards  at  December  31,  2002.  Although
realization  is not assured for the  remaining  deferred tax asset,  the Company
believes it is more likely  than not that they will be realized  through  future
taxable  earnings or  alternative  tax  planning  strategies.  However,  the net
deferred  tax assets  could be  reduced  further if the  Company's  estimate  of
taxable income in future  periods is  significantly  reduced or alternative  tax
planning strategies are no longer viable.

       At December 31,  2002,  the Company had NOLs for United States, Canadian,
South  African,  Gabonese  and Tunisian  income tax purposes of $742.7  million,
$37.4  million,  $40.3  million,  $13.4 million and $8.7 million,  respectively,
which are available to offset future regular  taxable income in each  respective
tax jurisdiction,  if any.  Additionally,  at December 31, 2002, the Company has
alternative  minimum tax net operating  loss  carryforwards  ("AMT NOLs") in the
United  States  of  $637.5  million,   which  are  available  to  reduce  future
alternative  minimum  taxable  income,  if any.  These  carryforwards  expire as
follows:
<TABLE>
                                         U.S.
                               ----------------------     Canada    South Africa    Gabon      Tunisia
   Expiration Date                 NOL       AMT NOL        NOL         NOL          NOL         NOL
   ---------------             ---------    ---------    --------    ---------    ---------    --------
                                                             (in thousands)
<S>                            <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
   December 31, 2005......     $     -      $     -      $ 31,637    $     -      $     -      $    -
   December 31, 2006......           -            -         5,738          -            -           -
   December 31, 2007......        13,320          -           -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2008......       112,508      104,574         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2009......       129,226      102,727         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2010......       124,859      110,961         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2011......         6,521        4,045         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2012......        68,334       58,723         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2018......       127,656       98,290         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2019......       145,999      144,837         -            -            -           -
   December 31, 2020......        14,235       13,297         -            -            -           -
   Indefinite.............           -            -           -         40,304       13,397       8,712
                                --------     --------     -------     --------     --------     -------
      Total...............     $ 742,658    $ 637,454    $ 37,375    $  40,304    $  13,397    $  8,712
                                ========     ========     =======     ========     ========     =======
</TABLE>

       The Company  believes $160.0  million of  the U.S.  NOLs and AMT NOLs are
subject to Section  382 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code and are  limited in each
taxable year to approximately $20.0 million.

NOTE P.    Geographic Operating Segment Information

       The Company has operations  in only one industry segment,  that being the
oil and gas  exploration  and  production  industry;  however,  the  Company  is
organizationally structured along geographic operating segments, or regions. The
Company has reportable  operations in the United  States,  Argentina and Canada.
Other foreign is primarily  comprised of  operations in South Africa,  Gabon and
Tunisia.

       The following  table  provides  the  geographic  operating  segment  data
required by Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information",  as well as results of
operations  of oil  and  gas  producing  activities  required  by  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
Activities".  Geographic operating segment income tax benefits (provisions) have
been   determined   based  on  statutory  rates  existing  in  the  various  tax
jurisdictions  where  the  Company  has oil and gas  producing  activities.  The
"Headquarters and Other" table column includes revenues,  expenses, additions to
properties,  plants and equipment and assets that are not routinely  included in
the earnings  measures or  attributes  internally  reported to  management  on a
geographic operating segment basis.

                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

<TABLE>


                                                United                                  Other      Headquarters    Consolidated
                                                States      Argentina     Canada       Foreign       and Other         Total
                                              ----------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ------------    ------------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  573,289    $  77,615    $  50,876    $     -      $       -       $  701,780
   Interest and other.......................         -            -            -            -           11,222         11,222
   Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.....       3,248           (3)         995          -              192          4,432
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 576,537       77,612       51,871          -           11,414        717,434
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     174,929       13,870       10,771          -              -          199,570
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     140,107       39,659       27,857          -            8,752        216,375
   Exploration and abandonments.............      62,955       10,306        5,841        6,792            -           85,894
   General and administrative...............         -            -            -            -           48,402         48,402
   Interest.................................         -            -            -            -           95,815         95,815
   Other....................................         -            -            -            -           17,256         17,256
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 377,991       63,835       44,469        6,792        170,225        663,312
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     extraordinary items....................     198,546       13,777        7,402       (6,792)      (158,811)        54,122
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........     (69,491)      (4,822)      (3,118)       2,377         69,991         (5,063)
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before extraordinary items.  $  129,055    $   8,955    $   4,284    $  (4,415)   $   (88,820)    $   49,059
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  533,560    $  35,121    $  33,506    $  70,268    $       -       $  672,455
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $2,375,505    $ 680,063    $ 176,110    $ 118,070    $   105,368     $3,455,116
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  649,635    $ 130,241    $  67,146    $     -      $       -       $  847,022
   Interest and other.......................         -            -            -            -           21,778         21,778
   Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.....         224          -         (1,339)         -            8,796          7,681
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 649,859      130,241       65,807          -           30,574        876,481
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     170,578       26,614       12,472          -              -          209,664
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     128,477       51,391       28,868          -           13,896        222,632
   Exploration and abandonments.............      70,049       23,857        9,882       24,118            -          127,906
   General and administrative...............         -            -            -            -           36,968         36,968
   Interest.................................         -            -            -            -          131,958        131,958
   Other....................................         -            -            -            -           39,588         39,588
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 369,104      101,862       51,222       24,118        222,410        768,716
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     extraordinary items....................     280,755       28,379       14,585      (24,118)      (191,836)       107,765
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........     (98,264)      (9,933)      (6,216)       8,441        101,956         (4,016)
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before extraordinary items.  $  182,491    $  18,446    $   8,369    $ (15,677)   $   (89,880)    $  103,749
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  454,229    $  98,311    $  36,048    $  57,972    $       -       $  646,560
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $2,212,540    $ 710,702    $ 187,841    $  53,314    $   106,656     $3,271,053
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  649,273    $ 140,990    $  62,475    $     -      $       -       $  852,738
   Interest and other.......................         -            -            -            -           25,775         25,775
   Gain on disposition of assets............       4,690          -            335          -           29,159         34,184
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 653,963      140,990       62,810          -           54,934        912,697
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     155,075       24,417        9,773          -              -          189,265
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     121,932       52,141       25,132          -           15,733        214,938
   Exploration and abandonments.............      40,867       25,388        5,131       16,164            -           87,550
   General and administrative...............         -            -            -            -           33,262         33,262
   Interest.................................         -            -            -            -          161,952        161,952
   Other....................................         -            -            -            -           67,231         67,231
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
                                                 317,874      101,946       40,036       16,164        278,178        754,198
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     extraordinary item.....................     336,089       39,044       22,774      (16,164)      (223,244)       158,499
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........    (117,631)     (13,665)     (10,162)       5,657        141,801          6,000
                                               ---------     --------     --------     --------     ----------      ---------
   Income (loss) before extraordinary item..  $  218,458    $  25,379    $  12,612    $ (10,507)   $   (81,443)    $  164,499
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets......  $  204,122    $  68,430    $  43,591    $  23,597    $       -       $  339,740
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $1,899,633    $ 702,868    $ 227,250    $  16,552    $   108,132     $2,954,435
                                               =========     ========     ========     ========     ==========      =========
</TABLE>

                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000



NOTE Q.     Income Per Share Before Extraordinary Items

       Basic income per share before extraordinary items is computed by dividing
income  before  extraordinary  items by the  weighted  average  number of common
shares  outstanding for the period.  The computation of diluted income per share
before  extraordinary  items reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
securities or other  contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted
into common  stock or resulted in the  issuance of common  stock that would then
share in the earnings of the Company.

       The following table is a reconciliation of the basic and diluted weighted
average common shares  outstanding  for the years ended December 31, 2002,  2001
and 2000:
<TABLE>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------
                                                          2002        2001       2000
                                                        --------    --------    --------
                                                                 (in thousands)

<S>                                                     <C>         <C>         <C>
     Weighted average common shares outstanding:
       Basic.........................................    112,542      98,529      99,378
       Dilutive common stock options (a).............      1,725       1,185         385
       Restricted stock awards (b)...................         21         -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------
       Diluted.......................................    114,288      99,714      99,763
                                                        ========    ========    ========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Common stock options to purchase  1,925,743  shares,  3,595,880  shares and
     4,911,749  shares of common stock were  outstanding but not included in the
     computations  of  diluted  net  income  per share for 2002,  2001 and 2000,
     respectively,  because the exercise prices of the options were greater than
     the average market price of the common shares and would be anti-dilutive to
     the computations.
(b)  During the year  ended  December  31,  2002,  the  Company  issued  654,445
     restricted shares of the Company's common stock. The restricted shares were
     issued as  compensation  to  directors,  officers and key  employees of the
     Company.  The restricted  shares include 18,545 shares that were granted to
     directors of the Company on May 13, 2002.  Director awards for 3,302 shares
     vest on a quarterly  pro-rata basis during the year ended May 13, 2003, and
     director  awards for 15,243  shares  vest on May 13,  2005.  The  remaining
     635,900 restricted shares were awarded to officers and key employees of the
     Company on August 12, 2002 and vest on August 12, 2005.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE R.     Pioneer USA

       Pioneer USA  is a  wholly-owned subsidiary  of the Company that has fully
and unconditionally  guaranteed certain debt securities of the Company (see Note
E  above).  The  Company  has not  prepared  financial  statements  and  related
disclosures  for Pioneer USA under  separate  cover  because  management  of the
Company has determined  that such  information is not material to investors.  In
accordance with practices  accepted by the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission,   the  Company  has  prepared   Consolidating   Condensed  Financial
Statements  in order to  quantify  the  assets of  Pioneer  USA as a  subsidiary
guarantor.  The following  Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheets as of December
31, 2002 and 2001, and Consolidating  Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
Income (Loss) and Consolidating Condensed Statements of Cash Flows for the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 present financial information for Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company as the Parent on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any
investments in subsidiaries under the equity method),  financial information for
Pioneer USA on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any  investment in  non-guarantor
subsidiaries  under  the  equity  method),  financial  information  for the non-
guarantor subsidiaries of the Company on a consolidated basis, the consolidation
and elimination  entries  necessary to arrive at the information for the Company
on a  consolidated  basis,  and the financial  information  for the Company on a
consolidated basis.  Pioneer USA is not restricted from making  distributions to
the Company.


                                       74

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2002
<TABLE>
                                              Pioneer
                                              Natural
                                             Resources                      Non-
                                              Company       Pioneer      Guarantor                       The
                                              (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations     Company
                                            -----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $         6   $     1,783    $    6,701    $              $     8,490
  Other current assets....................    1,727,828    (1,480,657)     (108,568)                      138,603
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
      Total current assets................    1,727,834    (1,478,874)     (101,867)                      147,093
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of
   accounting:
    Proved properties.....................          -       3,024,845     1,228,052                     4,252,897
    Unproved properties...................          -          43,969       175,104                       219,073
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation
    and amortization......................          -        (947,091)     (356,450)                   (1,303,541)
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                                    -       2,121,723     1,046,706                     3,168,429
                                             ----------    ----------     ----------                   ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................       75,311           -           1,529                        76,840
Other property and equipment, net.........          -          19,000         3,784                        22,784
Other assets, net.........................       16,067        14,231         9,672                        39,970
Investment in subsidiaries................    1,247,042       136,159           -       (1,383,201)           -
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                            $ 3,066,254   $   812,239    $  959,824                   $ 3,455,116
                                             ==========    ==========     =========                    ==========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Total current liabilities.................  $    30,785   $   216,065    $   27,742    $              $   274,592
Long-term debt, less current maturities...    1,668,536           -             -                       1,668,536
Other noncurrent liabilities..............          -         147,970       (19,639)                      128,331
Deferred income taxes.....................          -             -           8,760                         8,760
Stockholders' equity......................    1,366,933       448,204       942,961     (1,383,201)     1,374,897
Commitments and contingencies.............          -             -             -                             -
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                            $ 3,066,254   $   812,239    $  959,824                   $ 3,455,116
                                             ==========    ==========     =========                    ==========
</TABLE>


                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2001
<TABLE>
                                              Pioneer
                                              Natural
                                             Resources                      Non-
                                              Company       Pioneer      Guarantor                       The
                                              (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations     Company
                                            -----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $        79   $    10,900    $    3,355    $              $    14,334
  Other current assets....................    1,540,985    (1,125,968)     (173,708)                      241,309
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
      Total current assets................    1,541,064    (1,115,068)     (170,353)                      255,643
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of
   accounting:
    Proved properties.....................          -       2,688,962     1,002,821                     3,691,783
    Unproved properties...................          -          25,222       162,563                       187,785
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation
    and amortization......................          -        (815,323)     (279,987)                   (1,095,310)
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                                    -       1,898,861       885,397                     2,784,258
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................       82,811           -           1,508                        84,319
Other property and equipment, net.........          -          17,881         3,679                        21,560
Other assets, net.........................       15,911        81,356        28,006                       125,273
Investment in subsidiaries................    1,060,457        87,636           -       (1,148,093)           -
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                            $ 2,700,243   $   970,666    $  748,237                   $ 3,271,053
                                             ==========    ==========     =========                    ==========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Total current liabilities.................  $    30,745   $   176,442    $   21,022     $             $   228,209
Long-term debt, less current maturities...    1,577,304           -             -                       1,577,304
Other noncurrent liabilities..............       19,582       124,552        22,249                       166,383
Deferred income taxes.....................          -             -          13,768                        13,768
Stockholders' equity......................    1,072,612       669,672       691,198      (1,148,093)    1,285,389
Commitments and contingencies.............          -             -             -                             -
                                             ----------    ----------     ---------                    ----------
                                            $ 2,700,243   $   970,666    $  748,237                   $ 3,271,053
                                             ==========    ==========     =========                    ==========
</TABLE>


                                       75

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>

                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 527,189     $ 174,591     $      -        $            $ 701,780
  Interest and other....................          -         8,214         3,008            -                        11,222
  Gain on disposition of assets, net....          -         3,230         1,202            -                         4,432
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
                                                  -       538,633       178,801            -                       717,434
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       165,669        33,901            -                       199,570
  Depletion, depreciation and
   amortization.........................          -       139,822        76,553            -                       216,375
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        62,982        22,912            -                        85,894
  General and administrative............        1,323      37,723         9,356            -                        48,402
  Interest..............................       17,451      76,820         1,544            -                        95,815
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..      (52,580)      8,374           -              -          44,206           -
  Other.................................          405       4,879        11,972            -                        17,256
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
                                              (33,401)    496,269       156,238            -                       663,312
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Income before income taxes..............       33,401      42,364        22,563            -                        54,122
Income tax provision....................          -           -          (5,063)           -                        (5,063)
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Income before extraordinary items.......       33,401      42,364        17,500            -                        49,059
Extraordinary items - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt................       (6,688)        -         (15,658)           -                       (22,346)
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Net income..............................       26,713      42,364         1,842            -                        26,713
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedge gains, net:
    Deferred hedge losses...............           (4)   (156,396)      (22,667)           -                      (179,067)
    Net (gains) losses included in net
      income............................          447     (10,352)       (2,519)           -                       (12,424)
  Translation adjustment................          -           -           2,188            -                         2,188
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Comprehensive income (loss).............    $  27,156   $(124,384)    $ (21,156)    $      -                     $(162,590)
                                             ========    ========      ========      =========                    ========

</TABLE>


                                                               76

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 626,964     $ 220,058     $     -         $            $ 847,022
  Interest and other....................          368      14,415         6,995           -                         21,778
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................          -         8,524         (843)           -                          7,681
                                             --------    ----------    --------      ---------                    --------
                                                  368     649,903       226,210           -                        876,481
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       168,287        41,377           -                        209,664
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................          -       135,838        86,794           -                        222,632
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        73,649        54,257           -                        127,906
  General and administrative............          804      25,476        10,688           -                         36,968
  Interest..............................       31,261      83,473        17,224           -                        131,958
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..     (135,459)      5,588           -             -          129,871           -
  Other.................................          -         9,247        30,341           -                         39,588
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
                                             (103,394)    501,558       240,681           -                        768,716
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
Income (loss) before income taxes.......      103,762     148,345       (14,471)          -                        107,765
Income tax provision....................          -          (783)       (3,220)          (13)                      (4,016)
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
Income (loss) before extraordinary
  items.................................      103,762     147,562       (17,691)          (13)                      103,749
Extraordinary items - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt................       (3,753)        -             -             -                         (3,753)
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
Net income (loss).......................      100,009     147,562       (17,691)          (13)                      99,996
Other comprehensive income:
  Deferred hedge gains, net:
    Transition adjustment...............          -      (172,007)      (25,437)          -                       (197,444)
    Deferred hedge gains (losses).......         (578)    364,051        29,531           -                        393,004
    Net (gains) losses included in net
      income............................          135      (8,595)       13,946           -                          5,486
  Gains and losses on available for
    sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings losses..........          -           (45)          -             -                            (45)
    Gains included in net income........          -        (8,109)          -             -                         (8,109)
  Translation adjustment................          -           -         (11,173)          -                        (11,173)
                                             --------    --------      --------      --------                     --------
Comprehensive income....................    $  99,566   $ 322,857     $ (10,824)    $     (13)                   $ 281,715
                                             ========    ========      ========      ========                     ========
</TABLE>




                                       77

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                             Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                            (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations    Company
                                            ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $     -     $ 616,030     $ 236,708     $      -         $           $ 852,738
  Interest and other....................           29      13,808        11,938            -                        25,775
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
   assets, net..........................       (6,172)     36,946         3,410            -                        34,184
                                             --------    ----------    --------      ---------                    --------
                                               (6,143)    666,784       252,056            -                       912,697
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................          -       150,281        38,984            -                       189,265
  Depletion, depreciation and
   amortization.........................          -       129,996        84,942            -                       214,938
  Exploration and abandonments..........          -        43,938        43,612            -                        87,550
  General and administrative............          283      22,519        10,460            -                        33,262
  Interest..............................      (53,180)    151,026        64,106            -                       161,952
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..     (117,704)     (6,313)          -              -          124,017          -
  Other.................................          -        63,459         3,772            -                        67,231
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
                                             (170,601)    554,906       245,876            -                       754,198
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Income before income taxes..............      164,458     111,878         6,180            -                       158,499
Income tax benefit (provision)..........          -            (4)        5,963             41                       6,000
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Income before extraordinary item........      164,458     111,874        12,143             41                     164,499
Extraordinary item - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt................      (12,318)        -             -              -                       (12,318)
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Net income..............................      152,140     111,874        12,143             41                     152,181
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available for
   sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings gains...........          -        33,828           -              -                        33,828
    Gains included in net income........          -       (25,674)          -              -                       (25,674)
  Translation adjustment................          -           -          (6,910)           -                        (6,910)
                                             --------    --------      --------      ---------                    --------
Comprehensive income....................    $ 152,140   $ 120,028     $   5,233     $       41                   $ 153,425
                                             ========    ========      ========      =========                    ========
</TABLE>


                                       78

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                     Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer      Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA       Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               ----------    ---------    ------------    ---------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>          <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $ (327,185)   $ 406,939     $ 252,491     $  332,245
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................        31,994       86,703           153        118,850
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................           -       (365,981)     (248,717)      (614,698)
  Other property (additions) retirements, net..............           -        (13,171)          888        (12,283)
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities..        31,994     (292,449)     (247,676)      (508,131)
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................       529,805          -             -          529,805
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................      (481,783)         -             -         (481,783)
  Issuance of common stock.................................       236,000          -             -          236,000
  Payments of noncurrent liabilities.......................           -       (123,607)         (638)      (124,245)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................        (3,293)         -             -           (3,293)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...        14,389          -             -           14,389
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..       295,118     (123,607)         (638)       170,873
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......           (73)      (9,117)        4,177         (5,013)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................           -            -            (831)          (831)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............            79       10,900         3,355         14,334
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $        6    $   1,783     $   6,701     $    8,490
                                                                =========     ========      ========      =========
</TABLE>


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                     Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer      Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA       Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               ----------    ---------    ------------    ---------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>          <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $  (10,503)   $ 307,776     $ 178,327     $  475,600
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisition, net of fees paid...........           -         11,119           -           11,119
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................        21,170       75,816        16,467        113,453
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................           -       (336,753)     (192,970)      (529,723)
  Other property additions, net............................           -        (10,717)       (6,873)       (17,590)
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities..        21,170     (260,535)     (183,376)      (422,741)
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................       328,331          -             -          328,331
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................      (333,410)         -             -         (333,410)
  (Payments of) borrowings under noncurrent liabilities....           -        (54,728)        1,291        (53,437)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................       (13,028)         -             -          (13,028)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...         7,504          -             -            7,504
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..       (10,603)     (54,728)        1,291        (64,040)
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......            64       (7,487)       (3,758)       (11,181)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................           -            -            (644)          (644)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............            15       18,387         7,757         26,159
                                                                ---------     --------      --------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $       79    $  10,900     $   3,355     $   14,334
                                                                =========     ========      ========      =========
</TABLE>

                                       79

<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                     Non-
                                                                 Company       Pioneer      Guarantor          The
                                                                 (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries      Company
                                                               -----------    ---------   ------------    -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>          <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by operating activities................    $   213,491    $ 118,300     $  98,305     $   430,096
                                                                ----------     --------      --------      ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................            -         92,342        10,394         102,736
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................            -       (179,861)     (119,821)       (299,682)
  Other property (additions) dispositions, net.............            -        (10,004)       12,449           2,445
                                                                 ---------     --------      --------      ----------
         Net cash used in investing activities.............            -        (97,523)      (96,978)       (194,501)
                                                                 ---------     --------      --------      ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................        922,607          -             -           922,607
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................     (1,099,107)        (828)          -        (1,099,935)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities........................            -        (24,261)       (5,498)        (29,759)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................        (27,298)         -             -           (27,298)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................        (13,847)         -             -           (13,847)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases...          4,164          -             -             4,164
                                                                ----------     --------      --------      ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities.............       (213,481)     (25,089)       (5,498)       (244,068)
                                                                ----------     --------      --------      ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......             10       (4,312)       (4,171)         (8,473)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................            -            -            (156)           (156)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............              5       22,699        12,084          34,788
                                                                ----------     --------      --------      ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $        15    $  18,387     $   7,757     $    26,159
                                                                ==========     ========      ========      ==========
</TABLE>



                                       80

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


Capitalized Costs
<TABLE>
                                                                       December 31,
                                                                -------------------------
                                                                    2002          2001
                                                                -----------   -----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>           <C>
   Oil and Gas Properties:
     Proved.................................................    $ 4,252,897   $ 3,691,783
     Unproved...............................................        219,073       187,785
                                                                 ----------    ----------
                                                                  4,471,970     3,879,568
     Less accumulated depletion.............................     (1,303,541)   (1,095,310)
                                                                 -----------   ----------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties.......    $ 3,168,429   $ 2,784,258
                                                                 ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
<TABLE>

                                               Property
                                           Acquisition Costs                                         Total
                                        -----------------------     Exploration     Development      Costs
                                          Proved      Unproved         Costs           Costs        Incurred
                                        ---------     ---------     -----------     -----------     ---------
                                                                   (in thousands)

<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>             <C>             <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
  United States......................   $ 156,736     $  34,048     $   72,831      $  269,945      $ 533,560
  Argentina..........................          12            51         14,530          20,528         35,121
  Canada.............................         457         2,329          9,992          20,728         33,506
  South Africa.......................         -             -            2,789          34,300         37,089
  Gabon..............................         -             -           23,585             -           23,585
  Tunisia............................         -           1,843          6,320             -            8,163
  Other foreign......................         -             -            1,431             -            1,431
                                         --------      --------      ---------       ---------       --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 157,205     $  38,271     $  131,478      $  345,501      $ 672,455
                                         ========      ========      =========       =========       ========
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
  United States......................   $ 132,793     $  19,572     $  129,639      $  172,225      $ 454,229
  Argentina..........................      13,182         2,465         36,237          46,427         98,311
  Canada.............................          29            97         12,707          23,215         36,048
  South Africa.......................         706           125         21,936          13,860         36,627
  Gabon..............................         -             -           11,387             -           11,387
  Tunisia............................         -           1,835          3,652             -            5,487
  Other foreign......................         -             -            4,471             -            4,471
                                         --------      --------      ---------       ---------       --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 146,710     $  24,094     $  220,029      $  255,727      $ 646,560
                                         ========      ========      =========       =========       ========
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
  United States......................   $  26,102     $  28,199     $   65,023      $   84,798      $ 204,122
  Argentina..........................       1,169           520         35,406          31,335         68,430
  Canada.............................       8,709         2,506          6,744          25,632         43,591
  South Africa.......................         -             -           20,176             -           20,176
  Gabon..............................         -             -            1,326             -            1,326
  Other foreign......................         -             -            2,095             -            2,095
                                         --------      --------      ---------       ---------       --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  35,980     $  31,225     $  130,770      $  141,765      $ 339,740
                                         ========      ========      =========       =========       ========
</TABLE>




                                       81

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


Results of Operations

       Information  about the  Company's results  of  operations for oil and gas
producing  activities  is  presented  in  Note P of the  accompanying  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

       The estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December
31, 2002, which are located principally in the United States, Argentina, Canada,
South  Africa and  Tunisia,  were based on  evaluations  audited by  independent
petroleum  engineers with respect to the Company's major properties and prepared
by the Company's  engineers with respect to all other properties.  The estimates
of the  Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves as of December 31, 2001 and 2000
were prepared by the Company's engineers.  Reserves were estimated in accordance
with guidelines  established by the SEC and the Financial  Accounting  Standards
Board,  which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic
and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations except
by  contractual  arrangements.  The reserve  estimates  for 2002,  2001 and 2000
utilize  respective oil prices of $29.67,  $18.88 and $25.71 per Bbl (reflecting
adjustments for oil quality); respective NGL prices of $19.01, $11.58 and $16.74
per  Bbl;  and,  respective  gas  prices  of  $3.37,  $2.21  and  $7.50  per Mcf
(reflecting adjustments for Btu content, gas processing and shrinkage).

       Oil  and  gas   reserve  quantity   estimates  are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.



                                       82

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
<TABLE>

                                                2002                             2001                             2000
                                   ------------------------------   -----------------------------   -----------------------------
                                     Oil                              Oil                             Oil
                                   & NGLs       Gas                 & NGLs       Gas                & NGLs       Gas
Total Proved Reserves:             (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE     (MBbls)     (MMcf)     MBOE     (MBbls)     (MMcf)     MBOE
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
<S>                                <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............   279,146   1,474,090   524,829   266,802   1,354,327   492,523   259,066   1,314,842   478,206
Revisions of previous estimates..    61,529       5,983    62,525    (1,179)     41,039     5,661    19,295      63,912    29,947
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     8,634      83,361    22,528    24,943      63,113    35,462     1,237      28,071     5,916
New discoveries and extensions...     4,364       5,349     5,255     4,442      93,220    19,979     4,819      66,486    15,900
Production.......................   (16,042)    (84,812)  (30,177)  (15,862)    (77,609)  (28,796)  (16,872)    (83,930)  (30,860)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -         -         -           -         -        (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............   337,631   1,483,971   584,960   279,146   1,474,090   524,829   266,802   1,354,327   492,523

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1...............    35,669     471,150   114,193    35,843     408,282   103,890    29,797     415,620    99,067
Revisions of previous estimates..    (4,954)     47,829     3,017      (932)      4,460      (189)    1,411     (15,558)   (1,182)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -         -         170      31,700     5,453       -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...     3,985      41,652    10,927     4,354      58,538    14,110     8,066      43,914    15,385
Production.......................    (3,168)    (28,550)   (7,926)   (3,766)    (31,830)   (9,071)   (3,431)    (35,694)   (9,380)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    31,532     532,081   120,211    35,669     471,150   114,193    35,843     408,282   103,890

CANADA
Balance, January 1...............     2,659     132,061    24,669     4,066     132,919    26,219     3,970     145,251    28,179
Revisions of previous estimates..        24      (1,150)     (167)      212      15,067     2,723       429     (10,013)   (1,240)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -         -         -           -         -         140       7,768     1,435
New discoveries and extensions...        68       6,070     1,080        81       5,644     1,022       138       6,132     1,160
Production.......................      (390)    (17,653)   (3,333)     (671)    (18,426)   (3,742)     (611)    (16,219)   (3,315)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -         -      (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)      -           -         -
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............     2,361     119,328    22,249     2,659     132,061    24,669     4,066     132,919    26,219

SOUTH AFRICA
Balance, January 1...............     7,685         -       7,685     5,552         -       5,552       -           -         -
Revisions of previous estimates..       790         -         790       -           -         -         -           -         -
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -         -       2,133         -       2,133       -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...       -           -         -         -           -         -       5,552         -       5,552
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............     8,475         -       8,475     7,685         -       7,685     5,552         -       5,552

TUNISIA
Balance, January 1...............       -           -         -         -           -         -         -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...       845         -         845       -           -         -         -           -         -
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............       845         -         845       -           -         -         -           -         -

TOTAL
Balance, January 1...............   325,159   2,077,301   671,376   312,263   1,895,528   628,184   292,833   1,875,713   605,452
Revisions of previous
  estimates (a)..................    57,389      52,662    66,165    (1,899)     60,566     8,195    21,135      38,341    27,525
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     8,634      83,361    22,528    27,246      94,813    43,048     1,377      35,839     7,351
New discoveries and extensions...     9,262      53,071    18,107     8,877     157,402    35,111    18,575     116,532    37,997
Production.......................   (19,600)   (131,015)  (41,436)  (20,299)   (127,865)  (41,609)  (20,914)   (135,843)  (43,555)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -         -      (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)     (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............   380,844   2,135,380   736,740   325,159   2,077,301   671,376   312,263   1,895,528   628,184
                                   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======

Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States..................   196,893   1,027,750   368,184   206,922   1,081,592   387,188   209,636   1,118,976   396,133
  Argentina......................    28,248     341,967    85,243    22,679     345,281    80,226    22,931     358,124    82,618
  Canada.........................     2,086      94,607    17,854     2,930      80,953    16,422     2,598      61,210    12,800
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
    January 1....................   227,227   1,464,324   471,281   232,531   1,507,826   483,836   235,165   1,538,310   491,551
                                   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======

  United States..................   209,948   1,067,701   387,899   196,893   1,027,750   368,184   206,922   1,081,592   387,188
  Argentina......................    22,180     402,640    89,287    28,248     341,967    85,243    22,679     345,281    80,226
  Canada.........................     2,042      90,003    17,042     2,086      94,607    17,854     2,930      80,953    16,422
                                   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
    December 31..................   234,170   1,560,344   494,228   227,227   1,464,324   471,281   232,531   1,507,826   483,836
                                   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The revisions of previous estimates above,  include revisions  attributable
     to changes in commodity  prices  totaling a 28,643 MBOE increase,  a 24,970
     MBOE decrease and a 14,009 MBOE  increase for the years ended  December 31,
     2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       83

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

       The standardized  measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed
by applying year-end prices of oil and gas (with  consideration of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  undiscounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil and gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the difference.  The discounted  future net cash flows estimated in the
table  below do not  include  the  effects of the  Company's  commodity  hedging
contracts.  Utilizing December 31, 2002 commodity prices held constant over each
hedge  contract's  term, the net present value of the Company's  hedge contracts
discounted at 10 percent was a liability equal to approximately $226 million.

       Discounted  future cash  flow estimates  like those  shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.


                                       84

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
<TABLE>

                                                                 For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                           -----------------------------------------
                                                               2002           2001          2000
                                                           -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>            <C>            <C>
UNITED STATES Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $15,161,717    $ 8,222,573    $18,660,169
   Future production costs..............................    (4,830,294)    (3,231,730)    (4,907,134)
   Future development costs.............................      (864,386)      (735,984)      (479,290)
   Future income tax expense............................    (2,325,946)      (598,612)    (3,777,157)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                             7,141,091      3,656,247      9,496,588
10% annual discount factor..............................    (3,684,400)    (1,691,118)    (4,780,133)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $ 3,456,691    $ 1,965,129    $ 4,716,455
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $   986,716    $ 1,070,664    $ 1,183,652
   Future production costs..............................      (175,938)      (227,435)      (215,853)
   Future development costs.............................       (84,669)      (144,604)      (114,606)
   Future income tax expense............................      (143,845)       (45,140)       (81,705)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                               582,264        653,485        771,488
10% annual discount factor..............................      (242,158)      (262,334)      (264,126)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $   340,106    $   391,151    $   507,362
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $   502,260    $   301,002    $ 1,029,007
   Future production costs..............................       (89,246)       (73,601)      (104,189)
   Future development costs.............................       (22,294)       (27,050)       (35,443)
   Future income tax expense............................       (87,363)       (10,771)      (306,399)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                               303,357        189,580        582,976
10% annual discount factor..............................      (104,345)       (59,995)      (168,441)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $   199,012    $   129,585    $   414,535
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
SOUTH AFRICA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $   256,436    $   149,777    $   126,134
   Future production costs..............................       (92,820)       (73,697)       (65,232)
   Future development costs.............................       (23,200)       (54,281)       (47,970)
   Future income tax expense............................        (4,465)           -              -
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                               135,951         21,799         12,932
10% annual discount factor..............................       (14,588)        (7,338)        (5,782)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $   121,363    $    14,461    $     7,150
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
TUNISIA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $    23,460    $       -      $       -
   Future production costs..............................        (2,396)           -              -
   Future development costs.............................        (3,570)           -              -
   Future income tax expense............................        (6,447)           -              -
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                11,047            -              -
10% annual discount factor..............................        (1,667)           -              -
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $     9,380    $       -      $       -
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................   $16,930,589    $ 9,744,016    $20,998,962
   Future production costs..............................    (5,190,694)    (3,606,463)    (5,292,408)
   Future development costs.............................      (998,119)      (961,919)      (677,309)
   Future income tax expense............................    (2,568,066)      (654,523)    (4,165,261)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                             8,173,710      4,521,111     10,863,984
10% annual discount factor..............................    (4,047,158)    (2,020,785)    (5,218,482)
                                                            ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....   $ 4,126,552    $ 2,500,326    $ 5,645,502
                                                            ==========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>


                                       85

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

<TABLE>

                                                                  For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                              ----------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Producing Activities                                  2002          2001          2000
                                                              -----------   -----------    -----------
                                                                                        (in thousands)

<S>                                                           <C>           <C>            <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs...............  $  (489,338)  $  (631,365)   $  (663,473)
   Net changes in prices and production costs...............    2,042,575    (4,528,168)     3,829,794
   Extensions and discoveries...............................      152,253       184,454        525,361
   Development costs incurred during the period.............      262,469       239,156        101,350
   Sales of minerals-in-place...............................          -         (23,372)       (72,624)
   Purchases of minerals-in-place...........................      187,460       201,535        187,097
   Revisions of estimated future development costs..........     (387,404)     (429,365)      (200,734)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates.................      527,987        40,771        344,454
   Accretion of discount....................................      250,033       701,943        293,726
   Changes in production rates, timing and other............       99,722      (274,689)      (262,784)
                                                               ----------    ----------     ----------
   Change in present value of future net revenues...........    2,645,757    (4,519,100)     4,082,167
   Net change in present value of future income taxes.......   (1,019,531)    1,373,924     (1,373,924)
                                                               ----------    ----------     ----------
                                                                1,626,226    (3,145,176)     2,708,243
   Balance, beginning of year...............................    2,500,326     5,645,502      2,937,259
                                                                ---------    ----------     ----------
   Balance, end of year.....................................   $4,126,552   $ 2,500,326    $ 5,645,502
                                                                =========    ==========     ==========
</TABLE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Results
<TABLE>

                                                                           Quarter
                                                       ----------------------------------------------
                                                         First       Second       Third      Fourth
                                                       ---------   ----------   ---------   --------
                                                            (in thousands, except per share data)
2002
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 165,539   $ 172,430    $ 168,317   $ 195,494
       Total revenues and other income..............   $ 166,658   $ 174,338    $ 178,753   $ 197,685
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 169,027   $ 158,916    $ 157,953   $ 177,416
       Net income (loss):
          Before extraordinary items................   $  (1,959)  $  13,985    $  18,611   $  18,422
          Extraordinary items, net of tax (a).......         -        (2,843)     (19,501)         (2)
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
          Net income (loss).........................   $  (1,959)  $  11,142    $    (890)  $  18,420
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
       Net income (loss) per share:
          Basic:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $    (.02)  $     .13    $     .16   $     .16
            Extraordinary items.....................         -          (.03)        (.17)        -
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $    (.02)  $     .10    $    (.01)  $     .16
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
          Diluted:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $    (.02)  $     .12    $     .16   $     .16
            Extraordinary items.....................         -          (.02)        (.17)        -
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $    (,02)  $     .10    $    (.01)  $     .16
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
2001
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 257,986   $ 218,611    $ 198,088   $ 172,337
       Total revenues...............................   $ 270,446   $ 231,038    $ 204,471   $ 170,526
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 202,127   $ 200,092    $ 178,864   $ 187,633
       Net income (loss):
          Before extraordinary items................   $  67,919   $  28,338    $  23,228   $ (15,736)
          Extraordinary items, net of tax (a).......         -           -          1,374      (5,127)
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
          Net income (loss).........................   $  67,919   $  28,338    $  24,602   $ (20,863)
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
       Net income (loss) per share:
          Basic:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $     .69   $     .29    $     .24   $    (.16)
            Extraordinary items.....................         -           -            .01        (.05)
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .69   $     .29    $     .25   $    (.21)
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
          Diluted:
            Before extraordinary items..............   $     .68   $     .28    $     .24   $    (.16)
            Extraordinary items.....................         -           -            .01        (.05)
                                                        --------    --------     --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .68   $     .28    $     .25   $    (.21)
                                                        ========    ========     ========    ========
</TABLE>



                                       86

<PAGE>



ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The information  required in  response to  this item  is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 15, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       The information  required  in response  to this item is  set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 15, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
              MANAGEMENT

       The information  required in  response to  this item  is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 15, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       The information  required  in response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 15, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a) Evaluation of disclosure  controls and  procedures.  Within 90 days prior to
the filing  date of this  Report,  the  Company's  principal  executive  officer
("CEO") and principal financial officer ("CFO") carried out an evaluation of the
effectiveness  of the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures.  Based on
those  evaluations,  the  Company's  CEO and CFO believe (i) that the  Company's
disclosure  controls  and  procedures  are  designed to ensure that  information
required  to be  disclosed  by the  Company in the  reports  it files  under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,  summarized and reported
within the time  periods  specified  in the SEC's  rules and forms and that such
information  is  accumulated  and  communicated  to  the  Company's  management,
including the CEO and CFO, as  appropriate to allow timely  decisions  regarding
required  disclosure;  and  (ii)  that the  Company's  disclosure  controls  and
procedures are effective.

(b) Changes in internal controls.  There have been no significant changes in the
Company's internal controls or in other factors that could significantly  affect
the Company's internal controls subsequent to the evaluation referred to in Item
14.  (a),  above,  nor have there been any  corrective  actions  with  regard to
significant deficiencies or material weaknesses.


                                       87

<PAGE>



                                     PART IV


ITEM 15.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

       The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the  Company  are
included in "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and 2001
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
          2002, 2001 and 2000
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
          December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          2002, 2001 and 2000
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years
          ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       During the  three months ended  December 31,  2002, the Company filed one
Current  Report on Form 8-K dated October 24, 2002.  The  Company's  October 24,
2002 Form 8-K  provided,  under Items 7 and 9, (i) the  Company's  news  release
dated  October 24, 2002 that  announced  the  Company's  financial and operating
results  for the three and nine month  periods  ended  September  30,  2002,  an
operational update and the Company's fourth quarter 2002 financial outlook;  and
(ii) tables  summarizing,  as of October 23, 2002,  the Company's open oil hedge
positions,  open gas hedge  positions  and  deferred  hedge  gains and losses on
terminated commodity hedges.

(c)    Exhibits

        The exhibits to this Report required  to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c)
are listed below and in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedules

        No financial  statement schedules are  required  to be  filed as part of
this Report or they are inapplicable.

                                       88

<PAGE>



  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                            Description

3.1     -   Amended  and  Restated Certificate of  Incorporation of  the Company
            (incorporated   by  reference   to  Exhibit  3.1  to  the  Company's
            Registration   Statement  on   Form  S-4,   dated   June  27,  1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3     -   Certificate  of  Designation  of   Series  A  Junior   Participating
            Preferred  Stock (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit
            4.1 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form 8-A, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.1     -   Form of Certificate of Common Stock,  par value  $.01 per share,  of
            the Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the
            Company's  Registration Statement  on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Rights Agreement  dated  July  24,  2001,  between  the  Company and
            Continental  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company,   as  Rights  Agent
            (incorporated   by   reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
            Registration  Statement on Form 8-A,  File No. 001-13245, filed with
            the SEC on July 24, 2001).

10.1    -   Indenture, dated April 12, 1995,  between Pioneer USA  (successor to
            Parker & Parsley  Petroleum Company  ("Parker & Parsley")),  and The
            Chase   Manhattan    Bank   (National   Association),   as   Trustee
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 4.1  to Parker & Parsley's
            Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  dated  April  12,  1995,  File  No.
            001-10695).

10.2    -   First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated  as of August 7,  1997, among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee,  and Pioneer
            USA, with respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5  to  the  Company's
            Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q for the period ended September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3    -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation, Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas
            corporation,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  a  New York banking
            association, as Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified
            above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to
            the Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.4    -   Third Supplemental  Indenture, dated  as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc. (as  successor  to  Pioneer  USA),  a  Texas
            corporation,  Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc.,  a  Texas corporation, and The
            Chase Manhattan Bank,  a New York  banking association,  as Trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit 10.1
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.18 to the Company's Current
            Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.  001-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.5    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30,  1997, among
            Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc.,  as
            successor to  Pioneer USA),  a Texas  corporation,  the  Company,  a
            Delaware corporation, Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation,  and The
            Chase  Manhattan Bank,  a New York  banking association, as Trustee,
            with  respect  to the  indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current
            Report on  Form 8-K,  File  No. 001-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).



                                       89

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                            Description

10.6    -   Guarantee, dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to
            the $150,000,000  in aggregate  principal  amount  of 8-7/8%  Senior
            Notes due 2005  and  $150,000,000 in  aggregate principal  amount of
            8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007  issued under the indenture  identified
            above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to
            the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.7    -   Form of 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005, dated as of April 12, 1995, in
            the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,  together  with
            Officers'  Certificate  dated April 12, 1995, establishing the terms
            of the  8-7/8% Senior  Notes Due  2005  pursuant  to  the  indenture
            identified  above  as  Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 4.2  to Parker & Parsley's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the period ended June 30, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.8    -   Form of 8-1/4%  Senior Notes  due 2007, dated as of August 22, 1995,
            in the aggregate  principal  amount of  $150,000,000,  together with
            Officers' Certificate dated August 22, 1995,  establishing the terms
            of  the  8-1/4%  Senior  Notes  due  2007  pursuant to the indenture
            identified  above as  Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit 1.2 to Parker & Parsley's Current Report on Form 8-K,  dated
            August 17, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.9    -   Indenture, dated January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank
            of New York, as Trustee  (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 99.1
            to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File
            No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.10   -   First Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of  January 13, 1998,  among
            the Company, Pioneer USA,  as the Subsidiary Guarantor, and The Bank
            of New York,  as Trustee,  with respect  to the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 10.9 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 99.2 to
            the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.11   -   Form of 6.50% Senior Notes Due 2008 of the Company  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on  Form  8-K,  File  No.  001-13245,  filed with  the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

10.12   -   Form of 7.20% Senior Notes  Due 2028 of the Company (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on  Form  8-K,  File  No.  001-13245,  filed  with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

10.13   -   Guarantee dated as of  January 13,  1998, by Pioneer USA relating to
            the $350,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 6.50% Senior Notes
            Due 2008 issued under the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.9
            (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit  99.5 to  the  Company's and
            Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.14    -  Guarantee dated as of  January 13,  1998, by Pioneer USA relating to
            the $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 7.20% Senior Notes
            Due 2028 issued under the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.9
            (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  99.6 to  the  Company's and
            Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.15H   -  1991  Stock  Option  Plan of  Mesa Inc.  ("Mesa")  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1991).

10.16H   -  1996 Incentive  Plan of Mesa  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
            10.28  to the  Company's Registration  Statement on  Form S-4, dated
            June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.17H   -  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan, dated February 19, 1991
            (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1 to  Parker &  Parsley's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).




                                       90

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                             Description

10.18H  -   First Amendment  to the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            dated August 23, 1991 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.2 to
            Parker  &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,  dated
            February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.19H  -   The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit  4.1 to  the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8,
            Registration No. 333-35087).

10.20H  -   First  Amendment  to   the   Company's  Long-Term  Incentive   Plan,
            effective  as  of  November 23,  1998 (incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit 10.72 to  the Company's Annual  Report on Form  10-K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.21H  -   Second  Amendment   to  the   Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
            effective as of  May 20, 1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.73 to  the Company's  Annual Report on  Form 10-K  for the period
            ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.22H  -   Third  Amendment  to   the  Company's   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan,
            effective as of  February 17,  2000  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.76 to the  Company's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.23H  -   The  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase   Plan  (incorporated   by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.24H  -   First Amendment  to the  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan,
            dated December 9, 1998  (incorporated by  reference to the Company's
            Annual Report on  Form 10-K for  the year  ended  December 31, 1998,
            File No. 001-13245).

10.25H  -   Second  Amendment  to  the Company's  Employee Stock  Purchase Plan,
            dated December 14, 1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74
            to the Company's  Annual Report  on  Form 10-K  for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.26H  -   The Company's Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit  4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39153).

10.27H  -   Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock  Option Agreements, included
            as part of the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as
            of November 16,  1995,  between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive
            Officers  identified  on Schedule 1 setting forth additional details
            relating  to   the   Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive  Plan
            (incorporated by  reference to  Parker &  Parsley's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.28H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
            and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a  schedule  identifying
            substantially identical agreements  between the Company  and each of
            the other named executive  officers identified on Schedule I for the
            purpose  of  defining  the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon the
            termination of the officer's employment under certain  circumstances
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7  to   the  Company's
            Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q  for the  period ended  September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.29H  -   Indemnification Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially identical  agreements between the Company  and each of
            the   Company's  other   directors  and  named   executive  officers
            identified on  Schedule I (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
            to the Company's Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.30H* -   Pioneer USA 40l(k) and Matching Plan, Amended and Restated Effective
            as of January 1, 2002.


                                       91

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                             Description

10.31   -   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2000, among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary  guarantor and the Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the Indenture,  dated  January
            13, 1998, between the  Company and The Bank of  New York, as trustee
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to  the   Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.32   -   Form of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due 2010, dated as of April 11, 2000, in
            the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $425,000,000,  together  with
            Trustee's  Certificate  of  Authentication  dated  April  11,  2000,
            establishing the terms of the 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due  April 1, 2010
            pursuant to the  Second  Supplemental  Indenture identified above as
            Exhibit  10.31  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.2 to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q,  filed  with the  SEC on
            May 11, 2000).

10.33   -   Guarantee,  dated  as  of  April  11,  2000,  by  Pioneer USA as the
            subsidiary  guarantor   relating  to   the   $425,000,000  aggregate
            principal  amount of  9-5/8% Senior  Notes Due  April 1, 2010 issued
            under the Second  Supplemental Indenture identified above as Exhibit
            10.31  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.34   -   $575,000,000 Credit  Agreement,  dated as of May 31, 2000, among the
            Company,   as  the  borrower,   Bank  of   America,  N.A.,   as  the
            Administrative   Agent,   Credit  Suisse  First   Boston,   as   the
            Documentation Agent,  the Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as the Syndicated
            Agent and certain Lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
            to the  Company's Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC
            on August 9, 2000).

10.35   -   Agreement and  Plan of  Merger  dated as of November 28, 2000 by and
            among the Company, Pioneer USA, Parker & Parsley Employees Producing
            Properties  87-A,   Ltd.,   Parker  &  Parsley  Employees  Producing
            Properties 87-B Ltd., P&P Employees Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.,
            P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.,  P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P., P&P
            Employees Private 89, L.P.,  P&P Employees  90-A  Conv.,  L.P.,  P&P
            Employees  90-B  Conv., L.P.,  P&P Employees  90-C Conv.,  L.P., P&P
            Employees  Private  90,  L.P.,  P&P Employees 90  Spraberry  Private
            Development, L.P.,  P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P. and P&P Employees
            91-B Conv., L.P.  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.53 to the
            Company's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K for the period ended December
            31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).

10.36   -   Agreement and Plan of Merger  dated as of September 20, 2001,  among
            the Company, Pioneer USA and the Parker & Parsley partnerships named
            therein (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 2.1 to the  Company's
            Registration  Statement  on  Form S-4,  Registration  No. 333-59094,
            filed with the SEC on April 17, 2001).

10.37   -   Underwriting  Agreement  dated  April  16,  2002, among the Company,
            Pioneer USA and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on April 17, 2002).

10.38   -   Terms Agreement  dated April  16,  2002,  among the Company, Pioneer
            USA,  Credit  Suisse  First  Boston  Corporation,  Banc  of  America
            Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc.
            as representatives of the underwriters (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on April 17, 2002).

10.39   -   Third  Supplemental Indenture dated as of  April 30, 2002, among the
            Company, Pioneer USA as the subsidiary guarantor and The Bank of New
            York, as Trustee  (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 10.4 to the
            Company's  Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the three months ended
            March 31,  2002,  File No. 001-13245,  filed with the SEC on May 14,
            2002).

10.40   -   Form of 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2012 of the Company (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 99.1  to the  Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on April 29, 2002).


                                       92

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                             Description

10.41   -   Guarantee dated as of April 30, 2002, by Pioneer USA relating to the
            $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 7.50% Senior Notes Due
            2012  issued under  the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.39
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.6  to  the   Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q for the three months ended  March 31,
            2002,  File No.  001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on  May 14, 2002).

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23.2*   -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.

23.3*   -   Consent of Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc.

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).


                                       93

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant  to the  requirements of  Section 13 or  15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                            PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date: February 20, 2003     By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board, Chief
                                 Executive Officer, President and Assistant
                                 Secretary

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                       Title                         Date

  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield       Chairman of the Board,          February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------     President, Chief Executive
Scott D. Sheffield                Officer and Assistant
                                  Secretary
                                  (principal executive officer)

  /s/ Timothy L. Dove          Executive Vice President,       February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------     Chief Financial Officer and
Timothy L. Dove                   Assistant Secretary


  /s/ Richard P. Dealy         Vice President and Chief        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------     Accounting Officer
Richard P. Dealy


  /s/ James R. Baroffio        Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ Edison C.  Buchanan      Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
Edison C.  Buchanan


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner      Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton        Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones           Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Linda K.  Lawson         Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
Linda K.  Lawson


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.   Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


  /s/ Robert A.  Solberg       Director                        February 20, 2003
- ----------------------------
Robert A.  Solberg


                                       94

<PAGE>



                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Scott D.  Sheffield, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural  Resources
Company (the "Company"):

2.  Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain  any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make
the statements made, in light of circumstances  under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information  included  in this annual  report,  fairly  present in all  material
respects the financial  condition,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The Company's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the Company and we have:

a) designed  such  disclosure  controls and  procedures  to ensure that material
information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  Company's  disclosure  controls  and
procedures  as of a date  within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions  about the  effectiveness  of
the  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  based  on our  evaluation  as of the
Evaluation Date;

5. The Company's other  certifying  officer and I have  disclosed,  based on our
most recent evaluation, to the Company's auditors and the audit committee of the
Company's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a) all significant  deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls
which could adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize
and report  financial data and have  identified  for the Company's  auditors any
material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any  fraud,  whether  or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal controls; and

6. The Company's  other  certifying  officer and I have indicated in this annual
report whether or not there were significant  changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could  significantly  affect internal controls  subsequent to
the date of our most recent  evaluation,  including any corrective  actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

February 20, 2003




                             /s/ Scott D.  Sheffield
                            -------------------------------------------------
                            Scott D.  Sheffield, Chairman, President
                            and Chief Executive Officer



                                       95

<PAGE>





I, Timothy L.  Dove, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural  Resources
Company (the "Company"):

2.  Based on my  knowledge,  this  annual  report  does not  contain  any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make
the statements made, in light of circumstances  under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information  included  in this annual  report,  fairly  present in all  material
respects the financial  condition,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The Company's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the Company and we have:

a) designed  such  disclosure  controls and  procedures  to ensure that material
information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period
in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  Company's  disclosure  controls  and
procedures  as of a date  within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions  about the  effectiveness  of
the  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  based  on our  evaluation  as of the
Evaluation Date;

5. The Company's other  certifying  officer and I have  disclosed,  based on our
most recent evaluation, to the Company's auditors and the audit committee of the
Company's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a) all significant  deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls
which could adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize
and report  financial data and have  identified  for the Company's  auditors any
material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any  fraud,  whether  or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal controls; and

6. The Company's  other  certifying  officer and I have indicated in this annual
report whether or not there were significant  changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could  significantly  affect internal controls  subsequent to
the date of our most recent  evaluation,  including any corrective  actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

February 20, 2003




                            /s/ Timothy L.  Dove
                            -------------------------------------------
                            Timothy L.  Dove, Executive Vice President
                            and Chief Financial Officer



                                       96

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                             Page


3.1     -   Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of the
            Company  (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  3.1  to the
            Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form S-4,  dated  June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated  Bylaws  of the  Company  (incorporated  by reference
            to  Exhibit  3.2 to  the Company's  Registration  Statement on
            Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3     -   Certificate of  Designation of  Series A  Junior Participating
            Preferred  Stock  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit A to
            Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration Statement on  Form
            8-A, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.1     -   Form of  Certificate  of  Common  Stock,  par  value  $.01 per
            share,  of the Company  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
            4.1  to  the  Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form S-4,
            dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Rights Agreement dated July 24, 2001,  between the Company and
            Continental  Stock  Transfer & Trust Company,  as Rights Agent
            (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's
            Registration  Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 001-13245, filed
            with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

10.1    -   Indenture,  dated  April  12,   1995,   between  Pioneer   USA
            (successor  to  Parker &  Parsley Petroleum Company ("Parker &
            Parsley")),   and   The   Chase   Manhattan   Bank   (National
            Association), as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.1 to  Parker & Parsley's  Current  Report on Form 8-K, dated
            April 12, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.2    -   First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  August 7,  1997,
            among Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as Trustee,
            and  Pioneer  USA,  with  respect to the  indenture identified
            above as  Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
            10.5 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q  for the
            period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3    -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation,  Pioneer  NewSub1,
            Inc., a Texas corporation, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New
            York banking  association,  as  Trustee,  with  respect to the
            indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's  Current Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2,
            1998).

10.4    -   Third Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.(as successor to  Pioneer USA), a
            Texas corporation, Pioneer DebtCo, Inc.,  a Texas corporation,
            and The  Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking association,
            as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.18 to
            the  Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,
            among Pioneer DebtCo, Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer NewSub1,
            Inc., as successor to Pioneer  USA),  a Texas corporation, the
            Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  USA,  a Delaware
            corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York banking
            association,  as   Trustee,  with  respect  to  the  indenture
            identified  above as Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K,
            File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).


                                       97

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                             Page


10.6    -   Guarantee,  dated  as of  December  30,  1997,  by Pioneer USA
            relating to the $150,000,000 in  aggregate principal amount of
            8-7/8% Senior Notes  due 2005  and  $150,000,000 in  aggregate
            principal  amount of 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007 issued under
            the indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the  Company's Current Report
            on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            2, 1998).

10.7    -   Form  of 8-7/8%  Senior Notes  Due 2005, dated as of April 12,
            1995,  in the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,
            together with  Officers'  Certificate  dated  April 12,  1995,
            establishing  the  terms of  the  8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005
            pursuant to the  indenture identified  above as  Exhibit  10.1
            (incorporated  by  reference  to   Exhibit  4.2  to  Parker  &
            Parsley's Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the period ended
            June 30, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.8    -   Form of  8-1/4% Senior  Notes due 2007, dated as of August 22,
            1995,  in the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,
            together  with  Officers'  Certificate dated  August 22, 1995,
            establishing the terms  of the  8-1/4%  Senior  Notes due 2007
            pursuant to the  indenture  identified  above  as Exhibit 10.1
            (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  1.2  to  Parker  &
            Parsley's  Current  Report on Form 8-K, dated August 17, 1995,
            File No. 001-10695).

10.9    -   Indenture, dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and The
            Bank of New York,  as Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
            on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            14, 1998).

10.10   -   First  Supplemental Indenture,  dated  as of January 13, 1998,
            among the Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the Subsidiary Guarantor,
            and  The Bank of  New York,  as Trustee,  with respect  to the
            indenture identified above as  Exhibit  10.9  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit  99.2 to  the Company's and Pioneer USA's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the
            SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.11   -   Form   of   6.50%  Senior  Notes   Due  2008  of  the  Company
            (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  99.3 to the Company's
            and  Pioneer  USA's  Current  Report on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.12   -   Form  of  7.20%   Senior  Notes   Due  2028  of  the   Company
            (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit  99.4 to the  Company's
            and Pioneer  USA's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.13    -  Guarantee  dated  as  of  January  13,  1998,  by  Pioneer USA
            relating to the $350,000,000 in aggregate principal  amount of
            6.50%  Senior  Notes  Due  2008  issued  under  the  indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 10.9 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 99.5 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
            on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            14, 1998).

10.14    -  Guarantee  dated  as of  January  13,  1998,  by  Pioneer  USA
            relating to the $250,000,000 in  aggregate principal amount of
            7.20%  Senior  Notes  Due  2028  issued  under  the  indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 10.9 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 99.6 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report
            on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January
            14, 1998).

10.15H   -  1991 Stock  Option Plan of Mesa Inc. ("Mesa") (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 10(v) to  Mesa's  Annual  Report on Form
            10-K for the period ended December 31, 1991).


                                       98

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                             Page


10.16H   -  1996  Incentive  Plan of  Mesa  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.28 to the Company's Registration  Statement on Form
            S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.17H   -  Parker &  Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated February 19,
            1991  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.1  to  Parker &
            Parsley's  Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
            33-38971).

10.18H   -  First  Amendment to  the  Parker &  Parsley Long-Term Incentive
            Plan,  dated  August  23, 1991  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.2 to Parker &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement on
            Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.19H   -  The  Company's  Long-Term   Incentive   Plan  (incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to   the  Company's   Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35087).

10.20H   -  First  Amendment  to the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
            effective as of November 23, 1998 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.72 to the Company's Annual Report on  Form 10- K for
            the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.21H   -  Second  Amendment to the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
            effective  as of  May 20,  1999  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit  10.73 to  the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.22H   -  Third Amendment  to the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
            effective as of February 17, 2000 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.76 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10- K for
            the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.23H   -  The  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase Plan (incorporated by
            reference   to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's   Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.24H   -  First Amendment to the Company's  Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
            dated  December  9,  1998  (incorporated  by  reference  to the
            Company's  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year ended
            December 31, 1998, File No. 001-13245).

10.25H   -  Second Amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
            dated  December 14,  1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.74 to  the Company's  Annual  Report on  Form  10- K for the
            period ended  December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.26H   -  The    Company's    Deferred   Compensation   Retirement   Plan
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to the Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39153).

10.27H   -  Omnibus  Amendment to  Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreements,
            included as part of the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive
            Plan,  dated as of  November 16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley
            and Named  Executive Officers  identified on Schedule 1 setting
            forth additional details relating to the Parker & Parsley Long-
            Term  Incentive  Plan  (incorporated by  reference to  Parker &
            Parsley's  Annual Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
            December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).


                                       99

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                             Page


10.28H   -  Severance Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between the
            Company  and  Scott  D. Sheffield,  together  with  a schedule
            identifying  substantially  identical  agreements between  the
            Company  and  each  of  the  other  named  executive  officers
            identified  on  Schedule I  for the  purpose  of  defining the
            payment  of  certain  benefits  upon  the  termination  of the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Quarterly Report
            on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No.
            001-13245).

10.29H   -  Indemnification Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between
            the Company  and  Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule
            identifying  substantially  identical  agreements between  the
            Company  and each  of the  Company's other directors and named
            executive officers identified  on Schedule I  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q for the period  ended  September 30,  1997,  File No.
            001-13245).

10.30H*  -  Pioneer  USA  40l(k)  and  Matching  Plan, Amended and Restated
            Effective as of January 1, 2002.

10.31    -  Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated  as  of April 11, 2000,
            among the Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary guarantor and
            the Bank of New York, as trustee, with respect to the Indenture,
            dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of New
            York, as trustee (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 10.1 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC
            on May 11, 2000).

10.32    -  Form of 9-5/8%  Senior Notes  Due 2010,  dated as of  April 11,
            2000,  in  the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $425,000,000,
            together with  Trustee's  Certificate  of  Authentication dated
            April 11,  2000,  establishing the  terms of  the 9-5/8% Senior
            Notes Due April 1,  2010 pursuant  to the  Second  Supplemental
            Indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 10.31 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on
            Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.33    -  Guarantee,  dated as of  April 11,  2000, by Pioneer USA as the
            subsidiary guarantor  relating  to the  $425,000,000  aggregate
            principal  amount of  9-5/8%  Senior Notes  Due  April  1, 2010
            issued under the Second Supplemental Indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 10.31 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.3 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC
            on May 11, 2000).

10.34    -  $575,000,000 Credit Agreement,  dated as of May 31, 2000, among
            the Company,  as the borrower,  Bank of  America, N.A.,  as the
            Administrative  Agent,  Credit  Suisse  First  Boston,  as  the
            Documentation   Agent,   the  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,   as  the
            Syndicated Agent and certain Lenders (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q,
            filed with the SEC on August 9, 2000).

10.35    -  Agreement and Plan of Merger  dated as of  November 28, 2000 by
            and among the Company, Pioneer USA, Parker  & Parsley Employees
            Producing  Properties  87-A,  Ltd.,  Parker & Parsley Employees
            Producing  Properties   87-B  Ltd.,   P&P  Employees  Producing
            Properties 88-A,  L.P.,  P&P  Employees  89-A  Conv., L.P., P&P
            Employees 89-B Conv., L.P., P&P Employees Private 89, L.P., P&P
            Employees 90-A Conv., L.P., P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P., P&P
            Employees 90-C Conv., L.P., P&P Employees Private 90, L.P., P&P
            Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P., P&P Employees
            91-A  Conv.,   L.P.  and   P&P  Employees   91-B   Conv.,  L.P.
            (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.53 to  the Company's
            Annual Report  on  Form 10-K  for the period ended December 31,
            2000, File No. 1-13245).



                                       100

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                             Page

10.36    -  Agreement  and Plan  of Merger  dated as of September 20, 2001,
            among  the  Company,  Pioneer  USA  and  the  Parker  & Parsley
            partnerships  named  therein   (incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit 2.1  to  the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form
            S-4,  Registration  No.  333-59094, filed with the SEC on April
            17, 2001).

10.37    -  Underwriting Agreement dated April 16, 2002, among the Company,
            Pioneer  USA  and  Credit  Suisse   First  Boston   Corporation
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed with the
            SEC on April 17, 2002).

10.38    -  Terms  Agreement  dated  April  16,  2002,  among  the Company,
            Pioneer USA, Credit Suisse  First Boston  Corporation,  Banc of
            America Securities LLC,  J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman
            Brothers  Inc.   as   representatives   of   the   underwriters
            (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  99.2 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed with the
            SEC on April 17, 2002).

10.39    -  Third Supplemental Indenture  dated as of April 30, 2002, among
            the Company,  Pioneer USA as the  subsidiary  guarantor and The
            Bank of New York,  as  Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the three months ended  March 31,  2002,  File  No.  001-13245,
            filed with the SEC on May 14, 2002).

10.40    -  Form  of  7.50%  Senior   Notes  Due  2012   of   the   Company
            (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  99.1 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed with the
            SEC on April 29, 2002).

10.41    -  Guarantee dated as of  April 30, 2002,  by Pioneer USA relating
            to  the  $150,000,000 in  aggregate  principal  amount of 7.50%
            Senior Notes Due 2012 issued  under  the  indenture  identified
            above as  Exhibit  10.39  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.6 to  the  Company's Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the
            three months ended March 31, 2002,  File No.  001-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on May 14, 2002).

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23.2*   -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.

23.3*   -   Consent of Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc.


- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).




                                       101

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>exh1030h.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER USA 401K PLAN F/S
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.30H












                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.

                            401(k) AND MATCHING PLAN

             (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2002)
              ----------------------------------------------------



<PAGE>



                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                            401(k) AND MATCHING PLAN

             (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2002)
              ----------------------------------------------------


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                           Page

PREAMBLE      .............................................................  1

ARTICLE I.    DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.................................  1
              Section 1.1   Definitions  ..................................  1
              Section 1.2   Construction ..................................  9

ARTICLE II.   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION................................  9
              Section 2.1   Eligibility  ..................................  9
              Section 2.2   Participation..................................  9

ARTICLE III.  CONTRIBUTIONS, LIMITATIONS AND FORFEITURES................... 10
              Section 3.1   Pre-Tax and Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions........ 10
              Section 3.2   Matching Contributions......................... 11
              Section 3.3   Catch-Up Contributions......................... 11
              Section 3.4   After-Tax Contributions........................ 12
              Section 3.5   Payment of Contributions....................... 12
              Section 3.6   Return of Employer Contributions............... 12
              Section 3.7   Nondiscrimination Testing...................... 13
              Section 3.8   Application of Forfeitures..................... 17
              Section 3.9   Rollover Contributions......................... 17

ARTICLE IV.   TRUST FUND................................................... 18
              Section 4.1   Trust and Trustee.............................. 18
              Section 4.2   Trust Investment Options....................... 18
              Section 4.3   Valuation and Adjustment of Accounts........... 19

ARTICLE V.    VESTING...................................................... 19
              Section 5.1   Fully Vested Accounts.......................... 19
              Section 5.2   Vesting of Employer Account.................... 19
              Section 5.3   Special Vesting Provisions..................... 20

ARTICLE VI.   VALUATIONS, DISTRIBUTIONS.................................... 21
              Section 6.1   Time of Distribution........................... 21
              Section 6.2   Distribution of Retirement and Disability
                            Benefits....................................... 22



                                         (i)

<PAGE>



              Section 6.3   Distribution of Death Benefit.................. 24
              Section 6.4   Distribution of Separation from
                            Employment Benefit............................. 25
              Section 6.5   Forfeitures  .................................. 26
              Section 6.6   In-Service Withdrawals......................... 28
              Section 6.7   Distributions to Minors and Persons Under
                            Legal Disability............................... 29
              Section 6.8   Benefits Payable to Missing Participant or
                            Beneficiary.................................... 29
              Section 6.9   Plan Loans   .................................. 30
              Section 6.10  Qualified Domestic Relations Orders............ 30
              Section 6.11  Transfer of Eligible Rollover Distribution..... 31

ARTICLE VII.  PLAN ADMINISTRATION.......................................... 32
              Section 7.1   401(k) and Matching Plan Committee............. 32
              Section 7.2   Powers, Duties and Liabilities of
                            the Committee.................................. 33
              Section 7.3   Rules, Records and Reports..................... 33
              Section 7.4   Administration Expenses and Taxes.............. 33

ARTICLE VIII. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.................................... 34
              Section 8.1   Amendment    .................................. 34
              Section 8.2   Termination  .................................. 34
              Section 8.3   Benefit Plan Design Committee.................. 34

ARTICLE IX.   TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS......................................... 35
              Section 9.1   Top-Heavy Definitions.......................... 35
              Section 9.2   Minimum Contribution Requirement............... 36
              Section 9.3   Minimum Vesting Schedule....................... 36

ARTICLE X.    MISCELLANEOUS GENERAL PROVISIONS............................. 37
              Section 10.1  Spendthrift Provision.......................... 37
              Section 10.2  Claims Procedure............................... 37
              Section 10.3  Maximum Contribution Limitation................ 37
              Section 10.4  Employment Noncontractual...................... 38
              Section 10.5  Limitations on Responsibility.................. 38
              Section 10.6  Merger or Consolidation........................ 38
              Section 10.7  Applicable Law................................. 39
              Section 10.8  USERRA Compliance.............................. 39


                                      (ii)

<PAGE>



                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                            401(k) AND MATCHING PLAN

             (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2002)
              ----------------------------------------------------

         THIS 401(k) AND MATCHING PLAN, a profit sharing plan, made and executed
by PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),

                          W I T N E S S E T H T H A T :

         WHEREAS,  the Company has  heretofore maintained for the benefit of its
employees a qualified profit sharing plan known as the Pioneer Natural Resources
USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan and a  qualified money purchase pension plan known as the
Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. Matching Plan; and

         WHEREAS,  effective as of  12:01 a.m. on  January 1,  2002, the Company
merged the Pioneer Natural Resources  USA, Inc.  Matching Plan with and into the
Pioneer Natural Resources, Inc. 401(k) Plan; and

         WHEREAS,  the  Company  now  desires to  restate  the  Pioneer  Natural
Resources  USA,  Inc.  401(k) Plan to  accommodate such merger,  change the plan
name, update the plan for tax compliance,  incorporate prior amendments and make
certain other changes;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and pursuant to the
authority  reserved  thereunder,  the Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. 401(k)
Plan is hereby amended by  restatement in its entirety,  effective as of January
1, 2002, as the Pioneer Natural  Resources USA, Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan to
read as follows:


                                   ARTICLE I.

                          DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION

         Section  1.1   Definitions.    Unless  the  context  clearly  indicates
otherwise, when used in this Plan:

                 (a) "Account" means a Participant's After-Tax Account, Employer
         Employer Account,  Matching Plan Account,  Mesa After-Tax Account, Mesa
         Premium Account,  Mesa Profit-Sharing Account,  Pre-Tax Account,  Prior
         Plan  Employer  Account,  Prior  Plan  Pre-Tax Account  and/or Rollover
         Account,  as the  context requires.  The  Committee  may  establish and
         maintain  separate subaccounts  within a  Participant's  Accounts if it
         deems such to be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan.


                                       -1-




<PAGE>



                 (b) "Affiliated Company" means any corporation or organization,
         other than  an Employer,  which is a  member of a  controlled  group of
         corporations  (within the meaning of  Section 414(b) of the Code) or of
         an affiliated  service group  (within the meaning of  Section 414(m) of
         the Code) with respect  to which an Employer is also a member,  and any
         other incorporated or unincorporated trade or business which along with
         an  Employer  is  under  common  control  (within  the  meaning  of the
         regulations  from  time to time  promulgated  by the  Secretary  of the
         Treasury pursuant to  Section 414(c) of the Code);  provided,  however,
         that for the  purposes of Section 10.3 of the Plan,  Section 414(b) and
         (c) of the Code  shall be applied as  modified by Section 415(h) of the
         Code.

                 (c)  "After-Tax Account"  means  the  account  established  and
         maintained  under this  Plan by the Committee to record a Participant's
         interest under this Plan  attributable to  After-Tax Contributions made
         to this Plan.

                 (d)  "After-Tax  Contribution"  means a  contribution made by a
         Participant to this Plan pursuant to Section 3.4.

                 (e) "Basic Compensation"  means the sum of  (i) the base salary
         or wages  and any  overtime payable by an  Employer to an  Employee for
         personal services  rendered to the  Employer but  excluding any  amount
         payable pursuant to an Employer's salary continuation program, (ii) any
         contributions  made  by an  Employer on  behalf  of the  Employee  to a
         qualified cash or  deferred arrangement  (within the meaning of Section
         401(k) of the Code) maintained by such Employer, including any Catch-Up
         Contributions and  Total Pre-Tax  Contributions  made by an Employer to
         this Plan on behalf of such Employee,  (iii) any compensation reduction
         amounts elected by such  Employee for the purchase of benefits pursuant
         to a cafeteria plan  (within the meaning of Section 125(d) of the Code)
         maintained by an  Employer,  and (iv) any elective amounts that are not
         includible  in the gross  income of an  Employee by  reason of  Section
         132(f)(4) of the Code; provided, however,  that the Basic  Compensation
         of an  Employee  taken into  account  under the  Plan for any Plan Year
         shall  not  exceed  $200,000  (as  adjusted  to  take into  account any
         cost-of-living increases  authorized pursuant to  Section 401(a)(17)(B)
         of the Code).

                 (f)  "Catch-Up  Contribution" means a pre-tax contribution made
         by an Employer on behalf of a Participant pursuant to Section 3.3.

                 (g)  "Code"  means  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  of  1986,  as
         amended.

                 (h)  "Committee" means the  401(k) and  Matching Plan Committee
         appointed  by the  Board of Directors of the  Company to administer the
         Plan.

                 (i)  "Company" means  Pioneer Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc., a
         Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.


                                       -2-




<PAGE>



                 (j)  "Compensation"  means  the  sum of  (i)  wages  within the
         meaning  of  Section  3401(a) of the  Code and  all  other  payments of
         remuneration  to  an  Employee by an  Employer  (in  the  course of the
         Employer's trade  or business)  for  which the Employer  is required to
         furnish  the  Employee a  written  statement  under  Sections  6041(d),
         6051(a)(3) and 6052  of the Code,  but determined without regard to any
         rules that limit the remuneration included in wages based on the nature
         or location of the employment or the  services  performed  (such as the
         exception  for agricultural labor in  Section 3401(a)(2)  of the Code),
         (ii) any contributions made by an Employer on behalf of the Employee to
         a qualified cash or deferred arrangement (within the meaning of Section
         401(k) of the Code) maintained by such Employer, including any Catch-Up
         Contributions and  Total Pre-Tax  Contributions made  by an Employer to
         this Plan on behalf of such Employee,  (iii) any compensation reduction
         amounts elected by such  Employee for the purchase of benefits pursuant
         to a cafeteria plan  (within the meaning of Section 125(d) of the Code)
         maintained by an Employer,  and (iv)  any elective amounts that are not
         includible  in the  gross income of an  Employee  by reason of  Section
         132(f)(4) of the Code; provided,  however,  that except for purposes of
         determining  whether an  Employee is a Highly Compensated Employee or a
         Key Employee  (within the meaning of Section 9.1(c)),  the Compensation
         of an  Employee  taken  into  account  under the Plan for any Plan Year
         shall  not  exceed  $200,000  (as adjusted  to take  into  account  any
         cost-of-living  increases authorized  pursuant to Section 401(a)(17)(B)
         of the Code).

                 (k)  "Covered  Employee"  means  any  Employee  other  than  an
         individual who is  (i) a member  of a  collective  bargaining unit with
         which an Employer negotiates and with respect to whom no coverage under
         this Plan has been provided by collective bargaining agreement,  (ii) a
         nonresident  alien with  respect to the  United States who  receives no
         earned income from  an Employer  which constitutes income  from sources
         within the United States,  (iii) a  temporary or  seasonal  Employee as
         determined in accordance with the Employer's normal personnel policies,
         (iv)  not  treated  by an  Employer at  the time of the  performance of
         services as  an  employee for federal  tax purposes,  regardless of any
         subsequent reclassification by an Employer,  any governmental agency or
         account, or (v) treated as a leased employee by an Employer.

                 (l)  "Employee" means any individual employed by an Employer.

                 (m)  "Employer"  shall  include   the  Company  and  a ny other
         incorporated or unincorporated trade or business which may subsequently
         adopt this  Plan with the  consent  of the  Board of  Directors  of the
         Company.

                 (n)  "Employer  Account"  means  the  account  established  and
         maintained under this Plan by  the Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest under this  Plan  attributable to  (i) any amounts credited to
         his or her  Employer Account under the  Superseded Plan as in effect on
         December 31, 2001, and (ii) any Matching Contributions made to the Plan
         for the Participant on or after January 1, 2002.


                                       -3-




<PAGE>



                 (o) "Employment Date" means the date an Employee first performs
                 an Hour of Service.

                 (p) "Highly Compensated Employee" means for a Plan Year:

                           (1) any Employee who  during such Plan Year or during
                  the preceding  Plan Year was at any time a 5-percent owner (as
                  defined in  Section 416(i)(1) of  the Code)  of an Employer or
                  Affiliated Company; or

                           (2) any Employee  who during the  preceding Plan Year
                  received  Compensation  greater than  $80,000  (as adjusted to
                  take  into account  any  cost-of-living  increases  authorized
                  pursuant to  Section 414(q)(1) of the  Code) and who is in the
                  group consisting  of the top 20%  (when ranked on the basis of
                  Compensation  received  during  such  preceding  year)  of all
                  Employees, except those excluded pursuant to Section 414(q)(5)
                  of the Code.

         Solely  for  purposes  of  this  definition,  (i)  an  employee  of  an
         Affiliated Company shall be deemed to be an Employee, (ii) compensation
         received from an Affiliated Company shall be deemed to be Compensation,
         and  (iii) a  nonresident alien  who receives  no earned income from an
         Employer  or  Affiliated Company which  constitutes income from sources
         within the United States shall not be considered an Employee.

                 (q) "Hour of Service"  means an  hour for  which an Employee is
         directly   or  indirectly  compensated  or  entitled   to  compensation
         (including  back  pay,  regardless  of  mitigation  of  damages)  by an
         Employer for the  performance of  duties for an Employer or for reasons
         (such as vacation,  sickness or disability)  other than the performance
         of duties for an  Employer.  An Employee will be  credited  with  eight
         Hours of  Service per day  for any customary  work period  during which
         such Employee is on leave of absence authorized by his or her Employer.
         Leaves of absence shall be granted by an Employer to its Employees on a
         uniform, nondiscriminatory basis. In no event shall more than 501 Hours
         of  Service be  credited on  account of any  single  continuous  period
         during which the individual performs no duties.  An Employee's Hours of
         Service shall be credited  to the appropriate Plan Years or eligibility
         computation  period  determined in  accordance  with the  provisions of
         Section 2530.200b-2(b) and (c) of the Department of Labor  Regulations,
         which are  incorporated herein by this reference.  In determining Hours
         of Service for  the purposes of this Plan,  periods of employment by an
         Affiliated Company and services performed as a leased employee  (within
         the meaning of Section 414(n) of the Code) of an Employer or Affiliated
         Company shall be deemed to be periods of employment by an Employer.

                 (r)  "Investment  Fund"  means  any  fund  authorized  for  the
         investment of Trust assets pursuant to Section 4.2.


                                       -4-




<PAGE>



                 (s)  "Matching  Contribution" means a  contribution  made by an
         Employer to  the Plan for a Participant pursuant to Section 3.2.

                 (t) "Matching Plan Account"  means the account  established and
         maintained under  this Plan by the Committee  to record a Participant's
         interest under this  Plan attributable to  matching  contributions made
         for such Participant pursuant to the provisions of the Matching Plan as
         in effect on December 31, 2001.

                 (u)  "Matching  Plan" means the  Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
         Inc. Matching Plan,  as in effect from time to time prior to January 1,
         2002.

                 (v)  "Mesa After-Tax Account" means the account established and
         maintained  under this  Plan by the Committee to record a Participant's
         interest under  this Plan  attributable to  his or her  accrued benefit
         derived from after-tax contributions to the Mesa Profit-Sharing Plan as
         in effect on September 30, 1997.

                 (w)  "Mesa Premium Account"  means the account  established and
         maintained under this Plan by the  Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest under this Plan  attributable to  Employer  contributions made
         for such  Participant  pursuant to the  provisions of the  Mesa Premium
         Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997.

                 (x)  "Mesa Premium Plan"  means the Mesa Employees Premium Plan
         and Trust Agreement  as in effect from time to time prior to October 1,
         1997.

                 (y) "Mesa Profit-Sharing Account" means the account established
         and  maintained  under   this  Plan   by  the  Committee  to  record  a
         Participant's  interest  under  this  Plan  attributable  to his or her
         accrued benefit derived from employer contributions to the Mesa Profit-
         Sharing Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997.

                 (z) "Mesa  Profit-Sharing Plan"  means the  Mesa Profit-Sharing
         Plan and  Trust Agreement  as in  effect  from  time to  time  prior to
         October 1, 1997.

                 (aa) "Non-Highly  Compensated  Employee"  means for a Plan Year
         any  Employee who  is not a Highly  Compensated Employee  for such Plan
         Year.

                 (bb) The  "Normal  Retirement  Date" of a Participant means the
         day such Participant attains the age of 65 years.

                 (cc) "One Year Break in Service"  means a  12-consecutive-month
         Period of Severance during which an Employee fails to complete a single
         Hour of Service.

                 (dd) "Participant"  means any  individual who was a participant
         in either the Superseded Plan or the  Matching Plan or  who has elected
         to participate in this Plan pursuant to Section 2.2,  and whose  Vested
         Interest under this Plan has not been fully distributed.


                                       -5-




<PAGE>



                 (ee) "Period of Service" means,  for purposes of determining a
         Participant's Vested Interest in his or her Employer Account,  the sum,
         rounded  downward to the  nearest  whole year,  of each  period of time
         commencing with an Employee's  Employment Date or Reemployment Date and
         ending  on the  first  date  thereafter a  Period of  Severance  begins
         (except as provided in  subsection (ff)  of this Section in the case of
         an Employee's  maternity or  paternity leave of  absence).  Included in
         such sum to be  credited to an  Employee shall  be each  period of time
         during  which the  Employee is on an  authorized  leave of  absence for
         reasons of vacation,  sickness,  layoff or another occasion  designated
         and applied by an Employer or Affiliated Company on a nondiscriminatory
         basis,  but  in no event  exceeding one  year  in length.  A  Period of
         Service  also  includes  any  Period  of  Severance  of  less  than  12
         consecutive  months.  If an  Employee who  has no  vested right  to any
         amount credited to his or her Employer Account or Matching Plan Account
         incurs a One Year Break in Service,  such Employee shall forfeit his or
         her prior  Period of Service  unless he or  she completes an additional
         one-year Period of Service before the number  of his or her consecutive
         One Year  Breaks in  Service  equals  five.  Solely for the  purpose of
         determining the Period of Service  completed by a  Covered Employee who
         was in the employ of  Colorado Interstate  Gas Company on  May 1, 2001,
         periods  of  employment  by  Colorado   Interstate  Gas  Company  or  a
         subsidiary  thereof  prior to May 1,  2001,  shall be  considered to be
         periods of employment by an Employer.

                  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, if
         a Participant participated  in the Superseded  Plan prior to October 1,
         1997,  the  Period of Service  completed  by such  Participant prior to
         January 1,  1998,  shall be (i)  such  Participant's  years of  Vesting
         Service determined under the  Retirement Savings Plan for  Employees of
         Parker & Parsley as of June 27,  1996,  (ii) plus one year for the Plan
         Year  ending  December  31,  1996,   if  during  such  Plan  Year  such
         Participant completed  a Year of  Service under the  Retirement Savings
         Plan for Employees of  Parker & Parsley as in effect at the end of such
         year,  (iii) plus one year for the  Plan Year ending December 31, 1997,
         if such Participant  either (A)  completed a year of Vesting Service as
         of September 30, 1997,  under the Superseded  Plan as in effect on such
         date or (B) completed a one-year Period  of Service under the foregoing
         provisions of this  definition  during the entire  such Plan Year.  For
         purposes of clause  (ii) of the preceding sentence, a Participant shall
         be credited  with a  number of  Hours of  Service  applying the monthly
         equivalency method set forth in Labor Reg. ss. 2530.200b-3(e)(1)(iv) to
         any fractional  part of a year credited to such  Participant as of June
         28, 1996.

                 (ff)  "Period of Severance"  means a  period of time commencing
         with the  date an  Employee  ceases to be  employed  by an  Employer or
         Affiliated  Company for reasons of  Retirement,  Permanent  Disability,
         death, being discharged, or voluntarily ceasing employment, or with the
         first  anniversary of  the date  of his  or her  absence for  any other
         reason, and ending with the date such Employee resumes  employment with
         an Employer or  Affiliated Company;  provided, however, that solely for



                                       -6-




<PAGE>



         purposes  of determining  whether an  Employee incurs a  One Year Break
         in Service,  the Period of Severance of an  Employee who is absent from
         work due to the pregnancy of the Employee,  the birth of a child of the
         Employee, the placement of a child with the Employee in connection with
         the adoption of  such child by such Employee,  or caring for such child
         for a period  beginning immediately  following such  birth or placement
         shall not  commence until the  second anniversary of the  first date of
         such absence and the  period between the first and second anniversaries
         of the first date of such  absence shall be considered neither a Period
         of Service nor a Period of Severance.

                 (gg) "Permanent  Disability"  means  the  total  and  permanent
         incapacity of a Participant to  perform the usual  duties of his or her
         employment with an  Employer or Affiliated Company as determined by the
         Committee. Such incapacity shall be deemed to exist when certified by a
         physician acceptable to the Committee.

                 (hh) "Pioneer Stock"  means the common stock of Pioneer Natural
         Resources Company, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.

                 (ii) "Plan"  means  this  Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA, Inc.
         401(k) and Matching Plan (Amended and Restated  Effective as of January
         1, 2002), as in effect from time to time.

                 (jj) "Plan Year" means the calendar year.

                 (kk) "Pre-Tax  Account"  means   the  account  established  and
         maintained under  this Plan by the  Committee to record a Participant's
         interest  under this Plan attributable to (i) Pre-Tax Contributions and
         Pre-Tax  Bonus  Contributions  made by an  Employer on  behalf of  such
         Participant  and  (ii)  any  amounts  credited  to his or her  Employee
         Pre-Tax Contribution Account under the Superseded  Plan as in effect on
         September 30, 1997.

                 (ll) "Pre-Tax Bonus Contribution" means a  contribution made by
         an Employer to this Plan on behalf of a Participant pursuant to Section
         3.1(b).

                 (mm) "Pre-Tax Contribution"  means a  contribution  made  by an
         Employer to this Plan on  behalf of a  Participant pursuant  to Section
         3.1(a).

                 (nn)  "Prior  Plan   Employer   Account"   means   the  account
         established and maintained under this Plan by the Committee to record a
         Participant's  interest  under  this Plan  attributable to any  amounts
         credited to  his or her  BOUSA  Employer Matching  Contribution Account
         under the Retirement Savings Plan for Employees of  Parker & Parsley as
         in effect on June 27, 1996.

                 (oo) "Prior Plan Pre-Tax Account" means the account established
         and  maintained  under   this  Plan  by  the   Committee  to  record  a
         Participant's  interest  under  this  Plan  attributable to any amounts

                                       -7-




<PAGE>



         credited to  his or her  Plan A Salary Deferral Contribution Account or
         his or  her BOUSA  Plan Salary Deferral  Contribution Account under the
         Retirement Savings  Plan for Employees of Parker & Parsley as in effect
         on June 27, 1996.

                 (pp) "Qualified  Joint and  Survivor Annuity"  means an annuity
         which is  payable  for the  life  of the  Participant  with a  survivor
         annuity payable for the  life of his  or her spouse equal to 50% of the
         amount of  the annuity  payable  during the  life of  the  Participant;
         provided,  however,  that  in  the  case  of a  Participant  who is not
         married, a Qualified Joint and Survivor  Annuity means an annuity which
         is payable for the life of the Participant.  "Alternate Qualified Joint
         and Survivor Annuity" means an annuity which is payable for the life of
         the Participant with a  survivor annuity payable for the life of his or
         her spouse equal to  75% or 100% of the  amount of the  annuity payable
         during the life of the Participant.

                 (qq)  "Qualified  Preretirement  Survivor  Annuity"   means  an
         annuity which is  payable for the life of the  Participant's  surviving
         spouse.

                 (rr)  "Reemployment  Date"  means  the  date  an Employee first
         performs an Hour of Service following a Period of Severance.

                 (ss)  "Retirement"  means  the  termination  of a Participant's
         employment  with an Employer or  Affiliated Company  on or after his or
         her Normal Retirement Date  for any reason other than death or transfer
         to the employment of another Employer or Affiliated Company.

                 (tt)  "Rollover  Account"  means  the  account  established and
         maintained under this Plan by  the Committee to record a  Participant's
         interest  under  this  Plan   attributable  to  (i)  Rollover  Property
         contributed by such  Participant to this  Plan pursuant to Section 3.9,
         (ii) any  amounts credited to his  or her Rollover Contribution Account
         under the Superseded Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997, and (iii)
         any amounts  credited to  his or her  Rollover  Account  under the Mesa
         Profit-Sharing Plan as in effect on September 30, 1997.

                 (uu)  "Rollover  Property"  means  property the  value of which
         would be excluded from the gross income of the transferor under Section
         402(c), 403(a)(4) or 408(d)(3) of the Code if transferred to the Plan.

                 (vv) "Superseded Plan" means the Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
         Inc. 401(k) Plan,  as in effect from  time to  time prior to January 1,
         2002.  Prior to August 7,  1997,  the Superseded  Plan was known as the
         Retirement Savings Plan for Employees of Parker & Parsley.


                                       -8-




<PAGE>



                 (ww)  "Total  Pre-Tax  Contributions"  means  the  sum  of  the
         Pre-Tax Contributions and Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions made on behalf of
         a Participant.

                 (xx)  "Trust"  means  the  trust  fund  established pursuant to
         Section 4.1.

                 (yy)  "Trustee"  means the  individual or  corporate trustee or
         trustees  from time to time appointed and acting as trustee or trustees
         of the Trust established pursuant to the Plan.

                 (zz)  "Valuation Date" means each business day.

                 (aaa)  The "Vested  Interest" of a  Participant  means the then
         vested  portion  of  the  amount  credited  to  the  Accounts  of  such
         Participant at the particular point in time in question.

         Section 1.2 Construction.  The titles to the  Articles and the headings
of the Sections in this Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference only
and in case of any conflict the text of this instrument, rather than such titles
or headings,  shall control.  Whenever a noun or pronoun is used in this Plan in
plural form and there  be only one person or entity within the scope of the word
so used, or in singular form and  there be more than one person or entity within
the scope  of the  word so used,  such noun or  pronoun shall  have a  plural or
singular meaning as appropriate under the circumstance.


                                   ARTICLE II.

                          ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

         Section 2.1 Eligibility. Each participant in either the Superseded Plan
or the Matching Plan on December 31,  2001,  shall continue as a  Participant in
this Plan as of January 1, 2002.  Each other Covered Employee shall be  eligible
to become a participant in this Plan on the first day of the first pay period in
the calendar  month next following  his or her Employment Date. If a Participant
ceases  to be a  Covered Employee,  such Participant shall  remain a Participant
under  this Plan  but no contributions  shall be made to the  Plan on his or her
behalf while he or she is not a Covered Employee.

         Section 2.2 Participation.  Each  Covered  Employee  who is eligible to
participate  in the Plan may elect,  on a form  prescribed by the  Committee, to
participate in this  Plan on  the first  day of  the first  pay  period  in  the
calendar month following the filing of such election. Any Participant who ceases
to be a Covered Employee shall thereupon cease to  be eligible to participate in
the Plan;  provided,  however,  that  if  any  such  Participant  is  thereafter
reemployed as a Covered Employee, he or she shall be eligible to elect to resume
participating in the Plan as of the date of such reemployment.


                                       -9-




<PAGE>



                                  ARTICLE III.

                   CONTRIBUTIONS, LIMITATIONS AND FORFEITURES

         Section 3.1 Pre-Tax and Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions.

                  (a)  Each  Participant may  elect to have his or her  Employer
         make a Pre-Tax Contribution to  the Plan on his or her  behalf for each
         pay period  in an amount equal to at least 2% and not in excess of 30%,
         of his  or her  Basic  Compensation  for  that  pay  period.  All  such
         contributions shall be made by uniform payroll deductions pursuant to a
         compensation reduction agreement  which authorizes  the Employer to pay
         such contributions to the Trustee on behalf of the Participant.

                  (b) In addition, each Participant may elect to have his or her
         Employer  make a Pre-Tax  Bonus Contribution  to the Plan on his or her
         behalf in an  amount equal  to at least 2% and not in excess of 30%, of
         the bonus payable to such Participant under the Employer's annual bonus
         program.

                  (c) The  Committee  shall  establish  and  maintain  for  each
         Participant  a Pre-Tax Account.  All  amounts  attributable to  Pre-Tax
         Contributions and  Pre-Tax  Bonus Contributions made  by an Employer on
         behalf  of such  Participant  pursuant  to  this  Section 3.1  shall be
         credited to such Participant's Pre-Tax Account.

                  (d) A Participant may change the applicable percentage of such
         payroll (or  bonus)  deductions as  of the  first  day of the first pay
         period  of  any  calendar  month,  or at  any  time  suspend his or her
         election   to  have   Pre-Tax  Contributions   and/or   Pre-Tax   Bonus
         Contributions made  to the Plan,  provided that written  notice of such
         change  or  suspension  is  delivered  to  the  Committee  within  such
         reasonable period of  time prior  to the effective date  thereof as the
         Committee may require.

                  (e)   Any   provision   of   this   Plan   to   the   contrary
         notwithstanding,  the amount of Total Pre-Tax Contributions made to the
         Plan by an Employer on behalf of a Participant for a calendar year when
         added to the amount of any  other elective deferrals within the meaning
         of Section 402(g)(3) of the Code made  with respect to such Participant
         pursuant to any  other plan, contract or  arrangement of an Employer or
         Affiliated  Company for such  calendar year shall not exceed the dollar
         limitation contained in Section 402(g) of  the Code in  effect for such
         calendar year, except to the extent permitted under  Section 3.3 of the
         Plan and Section 414(v) of the Code,  if applicable.  If the percentage
         of Total Pre-Tax Contributions elected by a Participant results in such
         contributions equaling the  limitation imposed by Section 402(g) of the
         Code prior  to the  end of a  calendar  year, then such election by the
         Participant  shall  be  deemed  to be  an  election to  make  After-Tax
         Contributions  to the  Plan  at the  time  such  dollar  limitation  is
         exceeded  unless   otherwise  elected  by  the  Participant;  provided,
         however, that to the extent permitted by Section 414(v) of the Code and
         the  regulations thereunder,  such election shall first be deemed to be


                                      -10-




<PAGE>



         an election  to make  Catch-Up Contributions to the Plan.  In the event
         such contributions are not timely recharacterized and the limitation of
         this  subsection  (e) is exceeded with  respect to a  Participant for a
         Plan Year,  then if  such  Participant  notifies  the Committee  of the
         amount of Total Pre-Tax  Contributions that  exceeded  such  limitation
         within such  reasonable period  of time  prior to  the  first  April 15
         following  such  year as the  Committee may  prescribe in its  absolute
         discretion,  the  excess  Total  Pre-Tax  Contributions (along with any
         income  allocable  thereto for  such year,  but  not for the gap period
         following such year) shall be distributed to such  Participant no later
         than such  April 15.  A Participant will be deemed  to have so notified
         the Committee of excess elective deferrals for a calendar year if,  and
         only to the  extent,  such  excess  arises on  account of Total Pre-Tax
         Contributions  made to this Plan  and elective  deferrals made to other
         plans maintained by an Employer or Affiliated Company for such calendar
         year.  Any such excess  deferrals distributed to a Participant shall be
         distributed first from any Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions and then, to the
         extent necessary, from  Pre-Tax Contributions.  The income allocable to
         any excess  Total Pre-Tax Contributions for a Participant for a taxable
         year shall be  determined by multiplying the amount of income allocable
         to such Participant's Pre-Tax Account for such year by a fraction,  the
         numerator of which is the amount of excess Total Pre-Tax  Contributions
         for such  year and  the denominator  of which  is the sum of the amount
         credited to such Participant's  Pre-Tax Account  as of the beginning of
         such  year  plus  the   amount of   such  Participant's  Total  Pre-Tax
         Contributions for such year.  If any  portion of a Pre-Tax Contribution
         is  distributed or  recharacterized pursuant  to this  subsection,  any
         portion  of a  Matching  Contribution  (along with any income allocable
         thereto)  made to  this Plan  for such  Participant  that  matches  the
         distributed or recharacterized Pre-Tax Contribution shall be forfeited.

                  (f)  An  Employer  may  amend  or  revoke  any   Participant's
         compensation reduction agreement at any time during a Plan Year if such
         amendment or  revocation is deemed  by such Employer to be necessary or
         appropriate to ensure that all applicable limitations,  including those
         set forth in Sections 3.1(e), 3.7 and 10.3 are met for such year.

         Section 3.2  Matching  Contributions.  For each pay period an  Employer
shall make to the Plan for  each Participant in its  employ and allocate to such
Participant's  Employer Account a  Matching Contribution equal to 200 percent of
the  Pre-Tax Contributions made  by the  Employer on  such  Participant's behalf
during  such  pay  period  which  are  not in  excess of  five  percent  of such
Participant's  Basic  Compensation  for  such  pay  period.  The Committee shall
establish and maintain an  Employer Account for each Participant.  All  Matching
Contributions made for  a Participant pursuant to this Section shall be credited
to such Participant's Employer Account.

         Section 3.3  Catch-Up Contributions. All  Employees who are eligible to
make Pre-Tax Contributions to this Plan and who have  attained age 50 before the
close of the Plan Year shall be eligible to make Catch-Up Contributions pursuant
to a compensation reduction agreement and in accordance with, and subject to the
limitations of, Section 414(v) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.  Such
Catch-Up  Contributions  shall not be  taken into  account for  purposes  of the
provisions of the Plan implementing the required limitations  of Sections 402(g)
and 415 of the Code.  The Plan shall not be  treated as  failing to  satisfy the


                                      -11-




<PAGE>



provisions  of the Plan  implementing  the  requirements  of Section  401(k)(3),
401(k)(11),  401(k)(12), 410(b), or 416 of the Code, as applicable, by reason of
the making of such Catch-Up Contributions.

         Section 3.4 After-Tax Contributions.

                  (a)  Each   Participant   may  elect  to  make  an   After-Tax
         Contribution  to the Plan  for each pay period in an amount which, when
         combined with any  Pre-Tax Contributions  made to the Plan on behalf of
         such  Participant for  that  pay  period,  shall not  exceed 50% of the
         Compensation of such Participant during such pay period.

                  (b)  The  Committee  shall  establish  and  maintain  for each
         Participant an After-Tax Account. All amounts attributable to After-Tax
         Contributions made  by a Participant pursuant to this Section 3.4 shall
         be credited to such Participant's After-Tax Account.

                  (c) After-Tax Contributions may be made in whole or in part by
         uniform payroll  deductions  which  the  Participant  shall in  writing
         authorize his or her Employer to withhold and pay over to the  Trustee.
         A Participant may  change  the  applicable  percentage of  such payroll
         deductions as of the first day of the  first pay period of any calendar
         month,  or at any  time suspend his or her  election to  have After-Tax
         Contributions  made to the Plan,  provided that written  notice of such
         change  or  suspension  is  delivered  to  the  Committee  within  such
         reasonable period  of time prior  to the effective  date thereof as the
         Committee may require.

                  (d) At any time and from time to time during a Plan Year,  the
         Company may limit the After-Tax  Contributions made by a Participant or
         suspend the  making of  After-Tax Contributions  if the Company, in its
         absolute  discretion,  deems  such  to be  necessary or  appropriate to
         ensure  that all  applicable limitations,  including those set forth in
         Sections 3.7 and 10.3, are satisfied for such year.

         Section 3.5 Payment of Contributions.  Pre-Tax Contributions,  Catch-Up
Contributions and After-Tax Contributions made to the Plan by an Employer for or
on behalf of Participants  for a pay period shall be paid to the Trustee in cash
as soon as  practicable  after such pay period ends,  but no later than the 15th
business day after the end of the month in which such pay period  ends.  Pre-Tax
Bonus  Contributions made to the Plan on behalf of Participants shall be paid to
the Trustee in cash as soon as practicable  after the bonus payment is made, but
no later than the 15th day of the month after the end of the month in which such
bonus payment is made. Matching  Contributions made to the Plan for a pay period
shall be paid to the Trustee as soon as  practicable,  but no later than 30 days
after the end of the month in which such pay period ends.

         Section 3.6 Return of  Employer  Contributions.  Contributions  made to
this Plan are conditioned  upon being currently  deductible under Section 404 of
the Code.  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,  upon an
Employer's  request,  any such contribution or portion thereof made to this Plan
by  such  Employer  which  (i)  was  made  under  a  mistake  of  fact  which is

                                      -12-




<PAGE>



subsequently discovered,  or (ii) is disallowed as a deduction under Section 404
of the Code,  shall be  returned to such  Employer to the extent not  previously
distributed to Participants or their beneficiaries;  provided, however, that the
amounts  returnable to an Employer  pursuant to this Section shall be reduced by
any Trust losses  allocable  thereto and shall be returned to such Employer only
if such  return is made  within  one year  after  the  mistaken  payment  of the
contribution or the date of the  disallowance of the deduction,  as the case may
be.  Except as provided in this  Section,  no  contribution  made by an Employer
pursuant to this Plan shall ever revert to or be recoverable by any Employer.

         Section 3.7  Nondiscrimination Testing.

                 (a) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         if for any Plan  Year the actual deferral  percentage for  the group of
         Highly   Compensated  Employees  eligible  to  elect  to  have  Pre-Tax
         Contributions or Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions made during such Plan Year
         fails to satisfy one of the following tests:

                           (1) the actual deferral  percentage for said group of
                  Highly Compensated  Employees is not  more than 1.25 times the
                  actual deferral percentage for the preceding Plan Year for all
                  Non-Highly Compensated Employees eligible during the preceding
                  Plan Year  to elect  to have  Pre-Tax Contributions or Pre-Tax
                  Bonus Contributions made on their behalf, or

                           (2) the excess of the  actual deferral percentage for
                  said group  of Highly  Compensated  Employees  over the actual
                  deferral  percentage  for  the  preceding  Plan  Year  for all
                  Non-Highly Compensated Employees eligible during the preceding
                  Plan Year to elect  to have  Pre-Tax  Contributions or Pre-Tax
                  Bonus Contributions made on their  behalf is not more than two
                  percentage points, and the actual deferral percentage for said
                  group of  Highly Compensated  Employees is  not more  than two
                  times  the actual  deferral percentage  for the preceding year
                  for all  Non-Highly Compensated  Employees eligible during the
                  preceding Plan  Year to elect to have Pre-Tax Contributions or
                  Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions made on their behalf,

         then the actual deferral  percentage of Participants who are members of
         said group of Highly Compensated Employees shall be reduced by reducing
         the actual deferral percentages  of the  Highly  Compensated  Employees
         with the largest individual actual deferral percentages  to the largest
         uniform  actual   deferral  percentage   (commencing  with  the  Highly
         Compensated  Employee  with the  largest actual deferral percentage and
         reducing his or her actual deferral  percentage to the extent necessary
         to satisfy  one of  the above tests or  to lower such  actual  deferral
         percentage to the actual deferral percentage of the  Highly Compensated
         Employee  with  the  next  largest  actual  deferral  percentage,   and
         repeating this process  as necessary) that permits  the actual deferral
         percentage for  said group of  Highly Compensated Employees  to satisfy
         one of said  tests.  For purposes  of this  subsection  (a),  the  term
         "actual deferral percentage"  for a specified  group of Employees for a


                                      -13-




<PAGE>



         Plan Year  means the  average of the ratios  (calculated separately for
         each  Employee  in  such group and  after any  distributions  to Highly
         Compensated Employees  required to  satisfy the  limitation  imposed by
         Section 402(g)  of the  Code) of  (i) the  aggregate  amount  of  Total
         Pre-Tax  Contributions made  on behalf  of each  such Employee for that
         year, to (ii) the amount of such Employee's  Compensation for that year
         or, in the  Committee's discretion,  only for such portion of that year
         during which the  Employee was eligible to participate in the Plan.  If
         two or  more  plans that  include  cash or  deferred  arrangements  are
         considered  as one  plan for purposes of Section 401(a)(4) or 410(b) of
         the Code  (other than  for purposes  of the  average benefit percentage
         test),  the cash or deferred arrangements  included in such plans shall
         be treated as one arrangement for purposes of this subsection (a). If a
         Highly  Compensated Employee is a  participant in  two or  more cash or
         deferred arrangements of an Employer,  then for purposes of determining
         the actual  deferral ratio of such Employee,  all such cash or deferred
         arrangements (other than those that may not be permissively aggregated)
         shall be treated as one cash or deferred arrangement.

                  (b) The aggregate  amount of any  Total  Pre-Tax Contributions
         which may not  be credited to Pre-Tax Accounts for a  Plan Year because
         of  the  limitation  contained  in  subsection  (a)  of  this  Section,
         calculated by adding together the dollar amount of excess contributions
         determined in  subsection (a) of  this Section for each affected Highly
         Compensated  Employee,  shall  be  distributed  to  Highly  Compensated
         Employees (along with any income allocable to such excess contributions
         for such  Plan Year,  but not  for the  gap period following  such Plan
         Year) no later than the last day of the Plan Year immediately following
         such year  (and, if practicable,  within 2 1/2  months after the end of
         such year). The amount of Total Pre-Tax Contributions to be distributed
         to a particular Highly Compensated  Employee shall be determined on the
         basis of the amount of Total Pre-Tax Contributions made for each Highly
         Compensated  Employee  commencing with the  Highly Compensated Employee
         with the largest  amount of  Total Pre-Tax  Contributions for such Plan
         Year and reducing his  or her Total Pre-Tax Contributions to the extent
         necessary  to  lower  such  amount  to  the  amount  of  Total  Pre-Tax
         Contributions of  the Highly Compensated Employee with the next largest
         amount of  Total Pre-Tax Contributions,  and repeating  this process as
         necessary to distribute such aggregate amount; provided,  however, that
         the amount of Total Pre-Tax Contributions to be distributed shall first
         be reduced  by any  excess  deferrals  to  be  distributed  pursuant to
         Section  402(g) of  the Code.  Any such excess  contribution  shall  be
         distributed  first  from any  Pre-Tax  Contributions  and then,  to the
         extent necessary,   from  Pre-Tax  Bonus   Contributions.   The  income
         allocable to any such excess contributions for a Participant for a Plan
         Year shall be determined  by multiplying the amount of income allocable
         to such Participant's Pre-Tax Account for such year by a fraction,  the
         numerator  of which is the  amount of the excess contributions for such
         year and the denominator  of which is the sum of the amount credited to
         such Participant's  Pre-Tax Account  as of  the beginning  of such year
         plus the amount  of such Participant's Total Pre-Tax  Contributions for
         such year.  Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         Total Pre-Tax  Contributions otherwise  distributable  pursuant to this
         subsection  (b) to a  Participant  who is  eligible  to  make  Catch-Up


                                      -14-




<PAGE>



         Contributions to the  Plan shall,  to the  extent permitted  by Section
         414(v)  of the  Code and  the regulations  thereunder,  be treated as a
         Catch-Up Contribution. If any portion of a Pre-Tax Contribution made by
         an  Employer  on  behalf  of  a  Participant  is  distributed  to  such
         Participant or  is treated as  a Catch-Up Contribution  pursuant to the
         foregoing  provisions of this subsection (b), any portion of a Matching
         Contribution  (along with any income  allocable  thereto) made for such
         Participant  that  matches  the  distributed  Pre-Tax  Contribution  or
         recharacterized Catch-Up Contribution shall be forfeited.

                 (c) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         if for  any Plan  Year the  contribution  percentage for  the  group of
         Highly Compensated  Employees  eligible to  receive  an  allocation  of
         Matching Contributions or to make  After-Tax  Contributions to the Plan
         for such Plan Year fails to satisfy one of the following tests:

                           (1) the contribution  percentage  for  said  group of
                  Highly Compensated Employees is not  more than  1.25 times the
                  contribution  percentage  for the  preceding Plan Year for all
                  Non-Highly  Compensated  Employees  eligible for the preceding
                  Plan Year to receive an allocation of  Matching  Contributions
                  or make After-Tax Contributions, or

                           (2) the excess  of the  contribution  percentage  for
                  said  group  of   Highly   Compensated   Employees  over   the
                  contribution  percentage for  the preceding  Plan Year for all
                  Non-Highly  Compensated  Employees eligible for  the preceding
                  Plan Year to  receive an  allocation of Matching Contributions
                  or   make  After-Tax  Contributions  is  not  more  than   two
                  percentage  points,  and the  contribution percentage for said
                  group of  Highly  Compensated  Employees is  not more than two
                  times the contribution percentage for the  preceding Plan Year
                  for all  Non-Highly  Compensated  Employees  eligible  for the
                  preceding  Plan  Year to  receive  an  allocation  of Matching
                  Contributions or make After-Tax Contributions,

         then the  contribution  percentage of Participants  who are  members of
         said group of Highly Compensated Employees shall be reduced by reducing
         the contribution  percentages of the Highly Compensated  Employees with
         the largest  individual contribution percentages to the largest uniform
         contribution  percentage   (commencing   with  the  Highly  Compensated
         Employee  with the largest contribution  percentage and reducing his or
         her contribution  percentage to the  extent necessary to satisfy one of
         the  above  tests  or  to  lower such  contribution  percentage  to the
         contribution  percentage  of the  Highly Compensated Employee  with the
         next  largest contribution  percentage,  and repeating  this process as
         necessary) that  permits the contribution percentage for  said group of
         Highly Compensated Employees to satisfy one of said tests. For purposes
         of this  subsection  (c),  the  term  "contribution  percentage"  for a
         specified group  of Employees for  a Plan Year means the average of the
         ratios (calculated separately for each Employee in such group and after
         application  of the  reduction  provisions of  subsection  (a)  and the
         forfeiture provisions of subsection  (b) of this  Section) of  (i)  the
         aggregate amount  of After-Tax Contributions and Matching Contributions


                                      -15-




<PAGE>



         made by or  for such Employee  (and,  at the election of the Committee,
         the Total Pre-Tax  Contributions made on  behalf of  such Employee) for
         that year,  to (ii) the amount of such Employee's Compensation for that
         year or,  in the Committee's discretion,  only for such portion of that
         year during which the Employee was eligible to participate in the Plan.
         If two  or more  plans to  which  matching  contributions  or  employee
         after-tax  contributions  are  made  are  considered as  one  plan  for
         purposes of Section 410(b) of the Code  (other than for purposes of the
         average  benefit percentage  test),  such plans shall be treated as one
         plan for purposes of determining  the contribution percentages for this
         subsection (c).  If a  Highly Compensated Employee  is a participant in
         two or more plans to which matching contributions or employee after-tax
         contributions  are   made,   then  for  purposes  of  determining   the
         contribution ratio of such Employee,  all such  plans (other than those
         that may not be permissively aggregated) shall be treated as one plan.

                  (d) The aggregate  amount of  any  Matching  Contributions and
         After-Tax  Contributions  which  may  not be credited to  Participant's
         Accounts  for a  Plan  Year  because  of the  limitation  contained  in
         subsection  (c)  of this  Section,  calculated  by adding  together the
         dollar  amount  of   excess  aggregate   contributions   determined  in
         subsection  (c) of this  Section for each  affected Highly  Compensated
         Employee,  shall be forfeited if forfeitable,  but if not  forfeitable,
         distributed to such Highly Compensated Employees (along with any income
         allocable to such  excess aggregate  contributions for such  Plan Year,
         but not for the  gap period following such Plan Year) no later than the
         last day  of the  Plan Year  immediately  following  such year (and, if
         practicable,  within  2 1/2 months  after  the end of  such year).  The
         amount to be  distributed  to a  particular Highly Compensated Employee
         shall   be  determined  on  the   basis  of  the  amount  of   Matching
         Contributions  and  After-Tax  Contributions  made by  or for each such
         Highly Compensated  Employee  commencing  with the  Highly  Compensated
         Employee  with  the  largest  amount  of  Matching  Contributions   and
         After-Tax  Contributions  for such Plan Year and reducing  first his or
         her   After-Tax  Contributions   and  then,   if  necessary,   Matching
         Contributions to the extent necessary to lower such total amount to the
         amount of  Matching Contributions and  After-Tax  Contributions  of the
         Highly  Compensated Employee with the next  largest amount of  Matching
         Contributions  and After-Tax Contributions,  and repeating this process
         as necessary to distribute such aggregate amount.  The income allocable
         to any such excess aggregate contributions for a Participant for a Plan
         Year shall be determined  by multiplying the amount of income allocable
         to such Participant's Employer Account or After-Tax Account,  whichever
         is applicable,  for such year by a fraction,  the numerator of which is
         the amount of the excess  aggregate contributions for such year and the
         denominator  of  which  is  the  sum  of  the  amount  credited to such
         Participant's  Employer  Account  or  After-Tax  Account,  whichever is
         applicable,  as of  the beginning  of such  year  plus  the  amount  of
         Matching Contributions or After-Tax Contributions, as applicable,  made
         for such Participant for such year.

                  (e)   Any   provision  of   this  Section   to  the   contrary
         notwithstanding, the Company in its discretion may cause the provisions
         of subsections (a) and (c)  of this Section to be satisifed without use

                                      -16-




<PAGE>



         of the  corrective provisions  set forth in  subsections (b) and (d) of
         this  Section   by   requiring   each  Employer  to  make  a  qualified
         non-elective contribution  and/or a  qualified matching contribution to
         the Plan  to be  allocated  to the  Pre-Tax Accounts (with respect to a
         contribution  intended  to  be  taken  into  account  for  purposes  of
         determining the  actual deferral percentage pursuant to subsection (a))
         or the Employer Accounts (with respect to a contribution intended to be
         taken  into  account  for  purposes  of  determining  the  contribution
         percentage  pursuant to  subsection (c)) of those Participants who were
         Non-Highly Compensated  Employees  in the  employ of  (or on authorized
         leave of absence from) an Employer on the last day of such Plan Year. A
         qualified  non-elective contribution shall be allocated to the eligible
         Participants in the proportion that the Basic Compensation of each such
         eligible Participant  while both a  Participant and a  Covered Employee
         during that year bears to the  Basic Compensation of all  such eligible
         Participants  while both Participants and Covered Employees during that
         year.  A  qualified  matching contribution  shall be  allocated  to the
         eligible Participants in the proportion that the Pre-Tax  Contributions
         made with respect to each such eligible  Participant for such Plan Year
         bears to  the  Pre-Tax  Contributions  made with  respect  to  all such
         eligible Participants for such Plan Year.

                 (f) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the  determination   of  the   actual   deferral  percentage  and   the
         contribution  percentage  required   by  this  Section  for  Non-Highly
         Compensated  Employees  for the  preceding Plan  Year shall be  made in
         accordance  with  Sections  401(k)  and  401(m) of  the  Code  and  any
         regulations or other authorities issued thereunder.

         Section 3.8  Application of Forfeitures.  As soon as  practicable after
the  valuation  of all  Accounts  at the  end of each  Plan  Year,  all  amounts
forfeited  during that Plan Year shall first be applied to restore any forfeited
Accounts  required to be restored  pursuant  to  Sections  6.5 and 6.8,  and any
forfeitures  in excess of the amount  needed to restore any such  Account may be
applied to pay  administrative  expenses in  accordance  with  Section  7.4. Any
remaining  forfeitures  for such Plan Year, if any,  shall be used to reduce the
amount of the earliest subsequent  Matching  Contributions an Employer otherwise
would be required to make to the Plan.

         Section 3.9  Rollover Contributions. With the consent of and subject to
such  reasonable  conditions and limitations as may be imposed by the Committee,
any Covered  Employee  (regardless  of whether he or she is a  Participant)  may
contribute  Rollover Property in cash to the Plan. Each contribution of Rollover
Property  shall be credited  to the  Covered  Employee's  Rollover  Account.  An
Employee  who is not a  Participant,  but for whom a  Rollover  Account is being
maintained,  shall be accorded all of the rights and privileges of a Participant
under  the Plan  except  that no  contributions  (other  than  contributions  of
Rollover  Property)  shall be made for or on behalf of such Employee until he or
she meets the eligibility and participation  requirements of Article II. Subject
to the  Committee's  consent,  the Plan will accept (i) a direct  rollover of an
eligible rollover  distribution  from: (A) a qualified plan described in Section
401(a) or 403(a) of the Code, including after-tax employee contributions, (B) an
annuity contract  described in Section 403(b) of the Code,  excluding  after-tax
employee contributions, or (C) an eligible plan under Section 457(b) of the Code


                                      -17-




<PAGE>



which is maintained by a state,  political subdivision of a state, or any agency
or  instrumentality  of a state or political  subdivision of a state;  or (ii) a
Participant  contribution  of an  eligible  rollover  distribution  from:  (A) a
qualified plan described in Section 401(a) or 403(a) of the Code, (B) an annuity
contract  described in Section 403(b) of the Code, or (C) an eligible plan under
Section 457(b) of the Code which is maintained by a state, political subdivision
of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision
of a state.  The Plan will accept a  Participant  rollover  contribution  of the
portion  of a  distribution  from an  individual  retirement  account or annuity
described in Section  408(a) or 408(b) of the Code that is eligible to be rolled
over and would otherwise be includible in gross income of the Participant.


                                   ARTICLE IV.

                            TRUST FUND AND VALUATIONS

         Section 4.1  Trust and Trustee.  All of the  contributions  paid to the
Trustee pursuant to this Plan and the Superseded Plan,  together with the income
therefrom  and the  increments  thereof,  shall be held in trust by the  Trustee
under the terms and  provisions  of the  separate  trust  agreement  between the
Trustee and the  Company,  a copy of which is attached  hereto and  incorporated
herein by this  reference for all purposes,  establishing  a trust fund known as
the PIONEER  NATURAL  RESOURCES  USA,  INC.  401(k) AND  MATCHING  TRUST for the
exclusive benefit of the Participants and their beneficiaries.

         Section 4.2  Trust  Investment  Options.  All  amounts  credited  to  a
Participant's  Accounts  may be invested in Pioneer  Stock and/or one or more of
the Investment Funds at the direction of such Participant in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.  The assets of the Trust (other than Pioneer  Stock)
shall be divided into such number and kind of separate  and distinct  Investment
Funds as the Committee in its absolute  discretion  shall authorize from time to
time. The assets of the Trust allocated to a particular Investment Fund shall be
invested by the Trustee and/or one or more investment managers duly appointed in
accordance with the provisions of the trust agreement establishing the Trust, as
the case may be, in such  type of  property  acceptable  to the  Trustee  as the
Trustee is directed to acquire and hold for such Investment  Fund. Upon becoming
a  Participant  in the  Plan,  each  Participant  shall  direct,  in the  manner
prescribed  by the  Committee  in its  absolute  discretion,  that  all  amounts
credited to his or her Accounts under the Plan shall be invested,  in percentage
multiples  authorized by the Committee,  in one or more of the Investment Funds.
Subject to such  conditions  and  limitations  as the  Committee in its absolute
discretion may prescribe from time to time for  application to all  Participants
on a uniform  basis, a Participant  may change his or her  investment  direction
with respect to future  contributions  or redirect the investment of the amounts
credited to his or her Accounts provided that notice of such change is delivered
to or in the manner directed by the Committee  within such reasonable  period of
time prior to the effective date thereof as the Committee may require.


                                      -18-




<PAGE>



         Section 4.3  Valuation and Adjustment of Accounts. As of each Valuation
Date,  the Trustee  shall  determine  the fair market value of all assets of the
Trust with the value of the  assets of each  Investment  Fund  being  separately
determined.  On the  basis  of  such  valuations  and in  accordance  with  such
procedures as may be specified from time to time by the  Committee,  the portion
of each Account  invested in a particular  Investment  Fund shall be adjusted by
the  Committee to reflect its  proportionate  share of the income  collected and
accrued,  realized  and  unrealized  profits and losses,  expenses and all other
transactions  attributable to that particular  Investment Fund for the valuation
period then ended. All cash dividends,  stock dividends,  stock splits and other
amounts  received  by the  Trustee  with  respect to  Pioneer  Stock held for an
Account (including the forfeiture account  established  pursuant to Section 6.5)
shall be credited to such Account. The amount of any distribution, withdrawal or
forfeiture  shall  be  determined  on the  basis of the  most  recent  valuation
preceding the date of  distribution,  withdrawal or forfeiture,  as the case may
be.


                                   ARTICLE V.

                                     VESTING

         Section 5.1   Fully  Vested  Accounts.   The   amounts  credited  to  a
Participant's  After-Tax Account,  Mesa After-Tax Account, Mesa Premium Account,
Mesa Profit-Sharing Account, Pre-Tax Account, Prior Plan Employer Account, Prior
Plan Pre-Tax Account, and Rollover Account shall be fully vested at all times.

         Section 5.2  Vesting of Employer Account.

                  (a) The amounts credited  to the Employer Account and Matching
         Plan Account  of a  Participant  shall  become  fully  vested  upon the
         occurrence of any of the  following events while  the Participant is in
         the employ  of (or on  authorized leave of absence from) an Employer or
         Affiliated Company:  (i)  the  completion of  an Hour of Service by the
         Participant on  or after the date  he  or she attains age 60,  (ii) the
         Participant's death,  or (iii) the  Participant's Permanent Disability.
         Unless sooner vested pursuant to the preceding sentence,  and except as
         provided in subsection (b) of this Section and Section 5.3, the amounts
         credited to a Participant's Employer Account and Matching  Plan Account
         shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
<TABLE>

                     Period of Service
                  Completed by Participant             Percentage Vested
                  ------------------------             -----------------
<S>               <C>                                  <C>
                      Less than 1 year                        None
                           1 year                              25%
                           2 years                             50%
                           3 years                             75%
                      4 or more years                          100%
</TABLE>


                                      -19-




<PAGE>




                  (b) If a  Participant  makes  an  in-service  withdrawal under
         Section 6.6 from  his or  her  Employer  Account  at a  time  when  the
         Participant  is not  fully vested,  the Participant's vested  amount in
         such account on  any date thereafter shall be an amount X determined by
         the following formula: X = P(AB + D) - D. For purposes of this formula,
         P is  the Participant's  vested  percentage  under  the  Plan's vesting
         schedule  on  the  relevant  date,  AB  is the  account  balance on the
         relevant date  and D is  the amount  of  the  Participant's  in-service
         withdrawal.

         Section 5.3  Special Vesting Provisions.

                 (a) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the  amounts credited  to the  Employer  Account  and/or  Matching Plan
         Account  of a  Participant who is  specifically  designated by the Vice
         President  Administration   of  the  Company  as  being   involuntarily
         terminated in  connection  with the  divestiture program  and corporate
         restructuring announced on February 10, 1998, shall become fully vested
         and nonforfeitable on the date of such involuntary termination.

                 (b) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the amounts  credited  to the  Employer  Account  and/or  Matching Plan
         Account  of a Participant  who is  specifically designated  by the Vice
         President   Administration  of  the  Company  as  being   involuntarily
         terminated in  connection with the corporate restructuring announced on
         November 11, 1998,  shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable on the
         date of such involuntary termination.

                 (c) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the amounts credited to  the Matching Plan Account of a Participant who
         is specifically designated by the  Vice President Administration of the
         Company as being  involuntarily  terminated in connection with the sale
         by the Company of the Plum Creek Plant,  Leon County, Texas, to a third
         party shall become fully vested  and nonforfeitable on the date of such
         involuntary termination.

                 (d) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the amounts credited to the Matching  Plan Account of a Participant who
         is specifically  designated by the  Vice President - Administration and
         Risk  Management of the  Company as  being involuntarily  terminated in
         connection with one of  the following events shall become  fully vested
         and nonforfeitable on the date of such involuntary termination:

                     (i)    the transfer of operations of the  Howard Parker/Joe
                            Parsley Joint Venture wells to a third party;

                     (ii)   the sale of Iatan Field properties to a third party;


                                      -20-




<PAGE>



                     (iii)  the reorganization  of Offshore Operations effective
                            September 22, 1999;

                      (iv)  the restructuring and consolidation  of the Domestic
                            Reservoir Engineering  Department effective February
                            15, 2000; or

                       (v)  the sale of NationsBank building, Midland, Texas.

                 (e) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         the amounts credited  to the Matching Plan Account of a Participant who
         is specifically designated  by the  Vice President - Administration and
         Risk Management of the  Company  as being  involuntarily  terminated in
         connection  with  the  implementation  of  the  TOW  Production  System
         technology, shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable on the date of
         such involuntary termination.


                                   ARTICLE VI.

                    VALUATIONS, DISTRIBUTIONS AND WITHDRAWALS

         Section 6.1  Time of Distribution.

                 (a) Distribution  to a  Participant or  beneficiary  under this
         Article  shall be  made or  commence being made  no later than  60 days
         after the close  of the  Plan Year in which the latest of the following
         occurs:  (i) the Participant's Normal Retirement Date,  (ii) the  tenth
         anniversary   of   the  year   in  which   the  Participant   commenced
         participation in the Plan,  or (iii)  the Participant's separation from
         the employment  of an  Employer for any  reason  other than  his or her
         transfer to the employment of another Employer or Affiliated Company.

                 (b) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         in the case of a Participant who is a five-percent owner (as defined in
         Section 416(i) of the Code), distribution to such Participant under the
         Plan shall  be made or commence being made no later than April 1 of the
         calendar  year following  the calendar  year in  which the  Participant
         attains age 70 1/2.  Distributions that commence being made pursuant to
         the preceding sentence to a  Participant who has not separated from the
         employment of an Employer or Affiliated  Company shall be made pursuant
         to Section 6.2 as if the Participant  had terminated employment at such
         time  and shall be  made in  accordance  with the  minimum distribution
         requirements of  Section  401(a)(9)  of the  Code and such  regulations
         thereunder as may be applicable from time to time (or for periods prior
         to the  effective date  of final regulations under Section 401(a)(9) of
         the Code, pursuant to the regulations that were proposed on January 17,
         2001);  provided, however,  that if the Participant elects to waive the
         normal form of payment in accordance with Section 6.2,  the alternative
         form of  distribution  shall  be  the  minimum  amounts  required to be
         distributed  pursuant  to  Section  401(a)(9)  of  the  Code  and  such


                                      -21-




<PAGE>



         regulations thereunder as  may be applicable  from time to time (or for
         periods prior to the effective date of  final regulations under Section
         401(a)(9) of the  Code pursuant  to regulations  that were  proposed on
         January 17, 2001),  with any amount  remaining upon the  termination of
         the Participant's employment or the death of the Participant to be paid
         in accordance with Section 6.2 or Section 6.3, whichever is applicable.
         Further, any other Participant who attained age 70 1/2 prior to January
         1, 1999, and who elected  to continue to receive distributions prior to
         such Participant's  termination of employment shall be entitled receive
         an annual distribution in  accordance with the  preceding  sentence (or
         may elect  a larger  or smaller  amount for  such annual  distribution)
         unless and until  such Participant revokes such election. Any provision
         of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,  no distribution shall be
         made from this Plan that would violate Section 401(k) of the Code.

                 (c) Subject to the  provisions of  this  Article requiring that
         distributions  and  withdrawals  be  made  in  the form  of an  annuity
         contract, distributions and  withdrawals shall be made in cash,  except
         that amounts credited to  an Account that are invested in Pioneer Stock
         may, at the election of the Participant,  be distributed in the form of
         Pioneer Stock with cash in lieu of fractional shares.

                 (d) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         (i) all  distributions from  the Plan shall  be made in accordance with
         Section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder,  and (ii)
         all optional forms of benefit under the Plan, the Superseded Plan,  the
         Matching Plan, the Mesa Premium Plan,  and the Mesa Profit-Sharing Plan
         that are protected benefits  under Section  411(d)(6) of the Code shall
         continue to be optional  forms of benefit for Participants to whom such
         optional  forms  of   benefit  apply  notwithstanding  any   subsequent
         amendment  purporting to  revise or delete  any such  optional  form of
         benefit, except  to the extent that such  optional forms of benefit may
         be deleted in accordance with applicable law.

         Section 6.2  Distribution of Retirement and Disability Benefits.

                 (a) Except  as  otherwise  provided in  this Section,  upon the
         Retirement  or  termination  of  employment  on  account  of  Permanent
         Disability of a  Participant,  the  Vested Interest of such Participant
         shall  be  distributed  to such  Participant  by  the  Trustee  at  the
         direction of the Committee in a single distribution; provided, however,
         that if  such  Participant's Vested  Interest exceeds $5,000, he or she
         may elect to receive his or her  Vested Interest in monthly,  quarterly
         or annual installment  distributions over a period of two or more years
         with the first  such installment to be payable within 90 days after the
         end of the Plan Year in  which the Participant's employment terminates.
         Such installment  payments may be  made over  a period of  years not to
         exceed one or a combination of  the following periods:  (i) the life of
         the Participant,  (ii) the  lives of the  Participant  and  his or  her
         designated beneficiary, (iii) a period certain not extending beyond the
         life  expectancy  of the  Participant,  and (iv) a  period  certain not
         extending  beyond the  joint life and  last survivor  expectancy of the
         Participant and  his or  her designated  beneficiary.  Any provision of


                                      -22-




<PAGE>



         Section 6.3  to the  contrary  notwithstanding,  if a  Participant  who
         elected  installment  payments  dies prior  to the  distribution of the
         entire amount  of his or her  Vested  Interest,  the remaining  portion
         thereof   shall  be   distributed  to   his  or  her   beneficiary   or
         beneficiaries,  as determined in accordance  with Section 6.3(a),  in a
         single   distribution   within   90  days   after  the   end   of   the
         Plan Year  during  which  the  Participant  died.  Notwithstanding  the
         foregoing provisions of this Section 6.2, no distribution shall be made
         upon a Participant's  termination of employment on account of Permanent
         Disability prior to his  or her  Normal Retirement Date unless (i) such
         Participant  elects  to   receive  such  distribution   or   (ii)  such
         Participant's Vested Interest does not  exceed $5,000.  For purposes of
         determining  whether  the  value  of a  Participant's  Vested  Interest
         exceeds or does not exceed $5,000,  the value of a Participant's Vested
         Interest  shall be  determined  without  regard  to  the  value  of the
         Participant's Rollover Account.

                  (b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (b),  upon
         the  Retirement or  termination of employment  on account  of Permanent
         Disability of a Participant whose Vested Interest exceeds $5,000,  such
         Participant's Matching Plan Account,  Mesa Premium Account,  Prior Plan
         Employer Account and Prior Plan Pre-Tax Account shall be distributed to
         him or her by the Trustee at the direction of the Committee in the form
         of a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity contract to be purchased from
         a company selected  by the  Committee and commencing in payment as soon
         as practicable.  Not more than  90 days prior  to the date such annuity
         contract is to  commence in payment,  the  Committee shall provide such
         Participant with a  written explanation of (i) the terms and conditions
         of the Qualified Joint  and Survivor Annuity,  (ii) his or her right to
         make,  and the effect of,  an election to waive the Qualified Joint and
         Survivor Annuity form of benefit, (iii) the rights of his or her spouse
         with  respect to  the receipt  and waiver  of the  Qualified  Joint and
         Survivor  Annuity,  and  (iv) the right to make,  and the  effect of, a
         revocation of an  election to  waive the  Qualified Joint  and Survivor
         Annuity.  The written  explanation shall be  required at  least 30 days
         prior to the date the Qualified Joint and Survivor  Annuity contract is
         to commence in payment; provided, however, that a Participant may elect
         (with any applicable spousal consent)  to waive such requirement if the
         distribution to the  Participant commences no earlier than 8 days after
         such explanation is provided.  After receiving the written explanation,
         the Participant may  elect at any time during the 90-day period ending
         on the date the annuity contract is to commence in payment to waive the
         Qualified Joint  and Survivor  Annuity  form  of benefit  and  also may
         revoke any such election during such period. Any such election to waive
         a Qualified  Joint and  Survivor  Annuity form of  benefit by a married
         Participant will be  effective only if the  spouse of  such Participant
         consents in  writing within  the 90-day  period  preceding such date to
         both the  election and  the optional  form of  benefit  selected by the
         Participant and  such  consent  is  witnessed by a  notary public.  Any
         amount  payable from the  Matching Plan Account,  Mesa Premium Account,
         Prior Plan  Employer  Account or  Prior Plan  Pre-Tax Account  upon the
         Retirement or Permanent Disability of a Participant  who has elected to
         waive the  Qualified  Joint  and Survivor  Annuity  form of  benefit as
         provided above shall be distributed to such Participant  by the Trustee
         at the direction of the Committee in accordance with  subsection (a) of
         this Section;  provided,  however, that a Participant who has an amount


                                      -23-




<PAGE>



         payable from his or  her Matching Plan  Account or Mesa Premium Account
         may, in addition to the  optional forms available under subsection (a),
         elect to have  such amounts  paid in the form of an Alternate Qualified
         Joint and  Survivor Annuity.  For purposes of  determining  whether the
         value of a Participant's Vested Interest exceeds $5,000, the value of a
         Participant's Vested Interest shall be determined without regard to the
         value of the Participant's Rollover Account.

         Section 6.3  Distribution of Death Benefit.

                  (a) Except  as otherwise  provided in  this Section,  upon the
         death of a Participant,  the Vested  Interest of such Participant shall
         be distributed by the Trustee at the direction of the Committee to such
         Participant's  beneficiary or  beneficiaries  determined  in accordance
         with this subsection (a).  Any amount payable  under the  Plan upon the
         death of a married  Participant shall  be distributed  to the surviving
         spouse of such Participant unless such Participant designates otherwise
         with the written consent of  his or her spouse which is  witnessed by a
         notary public.  Any amount payable  under the  Plan upon the death of a
         Participant who is not married or who is married but has designated, as
         provided above,  a beneficiary other than  his or her spouse,  shall be
         distributed  to the  beneficiary or  beneficiaries  designated  by such
         Participant.  Such designation of beneficiary or beneficiaries shall be
         made in writing on a form  prescribed by the Committee and,  when filed
         with or as directed by the Committee, shall become effective and remain
         in effect  until  changed  by the  Participant  by the  filing of a new
         beneficiary  designation  form  with  the  Committee.  If an  unmarried
         Participant fails to so designate a beneficiary, or in the event all of
         a Participant's designated beneficiaries are individuals who predecease
         such  Participant,  then the  Committee  shall  direct  the  Trustee to
         distribute the amount  payable  under  the Plan  to such  Participant's
         surviving spouse,  if any,  but if none,  to such Participant's estate.
         All distributions under this  subsection (a) shall be made in a single
         distribution  as soon as  practicable  following a Participant's death;
         provided,  however,  that if the Participant's  Vested Interest exceeds
         $5,000, he or she may elect (or if the Participant does not elect,  his
         or her designated beneficiary may  elect) that distribution be made in
         monthly,  quarterly or annual installments over a period of two or more
         years with the first  such installment  to be  payable  within  90 days
         after  the  end  of  the  Plan  Year in  which  the  Participant  died.
         Installment payments may be made only to an individual over a period of
         years not to exceed one or a combination of the following periods:  (i)
         the life of the Participant's designated beneficiary,  or (ii) a period
         certain not extending  beyond the  life expectancy of the Participant's
         designated beneficiary.  For purposes of  determining whether the value
         of a  Participant's  Vested  Interest  exceeds  $5,000,  the value of a
         Participant's Vested Interest shall be determined without regard to the
         value of the Participant's Rollover Account.

                  (b) Any provision of  subsection  (a) of  this  Section to the
         contrary  notwithstanding,   except  as  otherwise   provided  in  this
         subsection (b),  upon the death  of a married  Participant whose Vested
         Interest exceeds $5,000, such Participant's Matching Plan Account, Mesa
         Premium Account,  Prior Plan  Employer  Account and  Prior Plan Pre-Tax


                                      -24-
<PAGE>

         Account shall be distributed to his or her surviving spouse in the form
         of a Qualified  Preretirement Survivor Annuity contract to be purchased
         from a company selected  by the  Committee and commencing in payment on
         the date that would have been such Participant's Normal Retirement Date
         if he or she  were still living.  The Committee shall provide each such
         married  Participant  with  a  written  explanation  of  the  Qualified
         Preretirement   Survivor  Annuity   provided   above,   including   the
         Participant's  right  to  waive  the  distribution  of  such  Qualified
         Preretirement Survivor  Annuity with the  consent of  his or her spouse
         and to  revoke  any such waiver,  within  whichever  of  the  following
         periods ends last: (i) the period  beginning with the first  day of the
         Plan Year  in which  the Participant  attains the  age of 32 and ending
         with the close  of the  Plan Year preceding  the Plan Year in which the
         Participant attains the age of 35,  (ii) the  one-year period after the
         individual becomes a  Participant,  or (iii) the  one-year period after
         separation from  employment in the case  of a Participant who separates
         before attaining age 35. Each married Participant may elect at any time
         prior to such Participant's  death to waive the Qualified Preretirement
         Survivor  Annuity form of  benefit  provided  above so  that his or her
         entire benefit may be paid  to his  or her  designated beneficiary.  No
         election to waive the  Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity will be
         effective upon the Participant's  death unless such election designates
         a beneficiary  that  cannot be  changed  without  spousal  consent, the
         Participant's surviving spouse consents in writing to such election and
         such consent is witnessed by a notary public. A spousal consent will be
         valid only with respect  to the spouse  who signs the  consent and such
         consent shall be irrevocable. A married Participant may revoke any such
         election to  waive the  Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuity at any
         time prior to his or her death.  The amount payable under the Plan upon
         the death of a married Participant who has elected,  as provided above,
         to  waive  the  Qualified  Preretirement   Survivor  Annuity  shall  be
         distributed  in accordance with  subsection (a)  of this  Section.  The
         surviving spouse of any deceased Participant may elect in writing after
         the Participant's death to receive the entire benefit otherwise payable
         to such surviving spouse in accordance with this subsection (a) of this
         Section.   For  purposes  of   determining  whether   the  value  of  a
         Participant's   Vested  Interest   exceeds  $5,000,   the  value  of  a
         Participant's Vested Interest shall be determined without regard to the
         value of the Participant's Rollover Account.

         Section 6.4  Distribution of Separation from Employment Benefit.

                  (a) Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Section,  if  a
         Participant separates from the employment  of an Employer or Affiliated
         Company  for any reason  other than his  or her  Retirement,  Permanent
         Disability,  death or transfer to the employment of another Employer or
         Affiliated Company,  the Accounts of such Participant shall be retained
         in trust and shall continue to  be credited with applicable earnings as
         provided in Section 4.3,  and the  Vested Interest of  such Participant
         shall be  distributed to him or her by the Trustee  at the direction of
         the Committee  in accordance with Section 6.2(a) as soon as practicable
         after his or her Normal Retirement Date  (or,  if the  Participant dies
         prior to such date,  the Vested  Interest of such  Participant shall be
         distributed  upon  his or her  death in  accordance with  Section 6.3);
         provided, however,  that (i) each such Participant shall have the right


                                      -25-




<PAGE>



         to elect on a  form prescribed  by the  Committee to  receive an  early
         distribution of his  or her Vested Interest as  soon as practicable and
         (ii) the  Committee  shall require  an early  distribution of  any such
         Participant's Vested Interest  which does not exceed $5,000 in the form
         of a single  distribution.  The  Vested  Interest of a  Participant who
         elects to receive an  early distribution shall be distributed to him or
         her in the same manner as provided in Section 6.2(a) for a distribution
         upon Retirement or Permanent Disability. Any provision of this Plan to
         the  contrary  notwithstanding,   for  purposes  of   this  Article   a
         Participant  shall  not   be  treated  as  having  separated  from  the
         employment of an Employer or Affiliated Company prior to such time that
         a distribution  can be  made to  such  Participant in  accordance  with
         Section 401(k) of the Code and the regulations thereunder. For purposes
         of  determining  whether the  value of a Participant's  Vested Interest
         exceeds  $5,000,   the  value   of  a  Participant's  Vested   Interest
         shall  be determined  without regard  to the value of the Participant's
         Rollover Account.

                  (b) Any  provision of  subsection  (a) of  this Section to the
         contrary  notwithstanding,   except  as   otherwise  provided  in  this
         subsection (b), if a Participant's whose Vested Interest exceeds $5,000
         separates from the employment of an  Employer or Affiliated Company for
         any reason  other  than his  or her  Retirement,  Permanent Disability,
         death or transfer to the  employment of another Employer  or Affiliated
         Company,   such  Participant's  Matching  Plan  Account,  Mesa  Premium
         Account,  Prior Plan Employer Account and/or Prior Plan Pre-Tax Account
         shall  be distributed  to  such  Participant  by  the  Trustee  at  the
         direction of  the Committee  upon such  Participant's Normal Retirement
         Date by payment  of the entire amount  in the form of a Qualified Joint
         and Survivor  Annuity contract  to be purchased from a company selected
         by the  Committee and  commencing in  payment as  soon  as  practicable
         thereafter  (or,  if  the  Participant dies  prior to his or her Normal
         Retirement Date, the Vested Interest of such Participant under the Plan
         shall be  distributed upon his or  her death in accordance with Section
         6.3);  provided,  however,  that  each  such Participant shall have the
         right  to elect  on a form  prescribed  by the  Committee to receive an
         early distribution  of the amount  credited to his or her Matching Plan
         Account, Mesa Premium Account, Prior Plan Employer Account and/or Prior
         Plan Pre-Tax Account as soon as practicable  after such election.  If a
         Participant  elects  under  this  subsection  (b) to  receive  an early
         distribution,  such  distribution  shall be  made in  the form of (i) a
         Qualified  Joint and Survivor  Annuity contract to  be purchased from a
         company selected  by the Committee and commencing in payment as soon as
         practicable  following such election,  or (ii) upon satisfaction of the
         notice  and waiver requirements  of Section 6.2(b),  in accordance with
         subsection (a) of this Section.

         Section 6.5  Forfeitures.

                  (a) Unless  sooner forfeited  as provided below,  any unvested
         portion  of  the  Accounts of a  Participant  who  separates  from  the
         employment of  an  Employer or  Affiliated Company for any reason other
         than his or her Retirement, Permanent Disability,  death or transfer to
         the  employment of  another Employer  or  Affiliated  Company  shall be


                                      -26-




<PAGE>



         forfeited upon the  earlier of the date  of such Participant's death or
         the date  such Participant incurs  five consecutive  One Year Breaks in
         Service  unless  such  Participant  is  reemployed  by  an  Employer or
         Affiliated Company prior to such date.

                  (b) If a Participant  receives a complete  distribution of his
         or her Vested  Interest  under Section 6.4  by the close  of the second
         Plan Year following  the Plan Year in which his or her  separation from
         employment occurred,  any portion  of such Participant's Accounts which
         is not vested  at the time of such  distribution  shall be forfeited at
         such time.  If a  Participant who  separates  from the employment of an
         Employer or  Affiliated  Company for  any reason other  than his or her
         Retirement,  Permanent Disability,  death or transfer to the employment
         of another Employer or  Affiliated Company,  is not entitled to receive
         any distribution from the  Plan due to  the fact  that such Participant
         has no  Vested  Interest,  such  Participant  shall be  deemed  to have
         received a  distribution  from  the Plan  of his  or her  entire Vested
         Interest  under the Plan  and any amount credited to such Participant's
         Accounts  shall  be  forfeited  at the  time of  such  separation  from
         employment.  If  a  Participant,  any  portion  of  whose  Accounts  is
         forfeited pursuant to  this subsection (b),  is reemployed as a Covered
         Employee prior  to  incurring  five  consecutive  One  Year  Breaks  in
         Service, the amount so forfeited shall be restored to such individual's
         Accounts,  out of current-year forfeitures or, if such forfeitures are
         insufficient,   by  an  additional  Employer  contribution;   provided,
         however,  that no  amount shall  be  restored  to  the  Accounts  of an
         individual who previously received a distribution of the vested portion
         of such Accounts  unless he or  she repays to the Plan, while a Covered
         Employee and within five years of  the date of  such reemployment,  the
         full amount previously distributed from  such Accounts for crediting to
         his or her Accounts.

                  (c) If a Participant who has not yet incurred five consecutive
         One Year Breaks  in Service  receives a  distribution under Section 6.4
         after the end  of the second Plan  Year following the year in which his
         or her  separation  from  employment  occurred,  any  portion  of  such
         Participant's  Accounts  which  is  not  vested  at the  time  of  such
         distribution shall  be retained  in such Account and shall be forfeited
         upon the  earlier of the date of such  Participant's death or the  date
         such Participant incurs five  consecutive One  Year  Breaks in  Service
         unless  such  Participant  is reemployed  by an  Employer or Affiliated
         Company prior to such date. If a  Participant  receives a  distribution
         from the Plan after the  end of the second Plan Year following the year
         in  which  his  or  her separation  from  employment  occurred  and  is
         reemployed by an Employer or Affiliated Company prior to incurring five
         consecutive  One Year Breaks  in Service,  then the unvested balance in
         his or  her Accounts  shall be  transferred to a segregated account for
         such  Participant and the  amount that  the Participant  is entitled to
         receive from such segregated account as of  any later date  shall be an
         amount equal to X, which amount shall be  determined in accordance with
         the following formula: X = P(AB + D) - D,  where P is the Participant's
         vested percentage  at such later date,  AB is the  amount in his or her
         segregated account at such later date,  and D is the amount distributed
         to the  Participant in  connection with  his or  her earlier separation
         from employment.



                                      -27-




<PAGE>



                  (d) All amounts forfeited under  the Plan shall be credited to
         a forfeiture account and invested  by the  Trustee at  the direction of
         the  Committee in  its discretion until such forfeited amounts  and any
         earnings attributable  thereto are applied  in accordance with  Section
         3.8.

         Section 6.6 In-Service Withdrawals.

         (a)      A Participant in the employ of an Employer may make --

                    (i)    a withdrawal of all or a portion (in multiples of 10%
                           or  in  whole  dollar  amounts)  of  the total amount
                           credited  to  his  or  her  After-Tax  Account,  Mesa
                           After-Tax Account or Rollover Account;

                   (ii)    if the Participant has attained the age of 59 1/2,  a
                           withdrawal of  all or a portion  (in multiples of 10%
                           or in  whole dollar  amounts)  of  the  total  vested
                           amount credited to  his or her  Accounts  (other than
                           his or  her Matching  Plan  Account and  Mesa Premium
                           Account); or

                  (iii)    a hardship withdrawal of such amount as the Committee
                           shall  determine  to  be  necessary   to  satisfy  an
                           immediate   and   heavy  financial   need   of   such
                           Participant from his or her Pre-Tax Account and Prior
                           Plan Pre-Tax Account, other than earnings credited to
                           either  such  Account  for any  period of  time after
                           December  31,   1988,   and   qualified   nonelective
                           contributions allocated to either such Account;

         provided, however,  that (i) no withdrawal may be made unless notice of
         such  withdrawal is delivered to or  in the  manner  prescribed  by the
         Committee  by the  withdrawing Participant  within such  period of time
         prior to the effective  date thereof  as the Committee may prescribe in
         its discretion, (ii) no withdrawal may be made by a Participant to whom
         a loan  from the  Trust is  then  outstanding  unless the  Committee is
         satisfied that such loan will remain  nontaxable and  fully  secured by
         the   withdrawing   Participant's   Vested   Interest   following  such
         withdrawal,  and (iii)  withdrawals from the Prior Plan Pre-Tax Account
         and Prior Plan Employer Account may be made only pursuant to the notice
         and consent requirements of Section 6.2(b).  The Committee shall direct
         the Trustee to  distribute any  withdrawn amount to such Participant as
         soon as practicable following the effective date of the withdrawal. Any
         withdrawal  from an  Account pursuant  to this  Section  shall be taken
         proportionally  from  each  Investment  Fund in  which such  Account is
         invested.  The Committee may prescribe  uniform  and  nondiscriminatory
         rules and procedures  limiting the  number of  times that a Participant
         may make withdrawals during a  Plan Year and the  minimum amount that a
         Participant may withdraw on any single occasion.

                  (b) A hardship  withdrawal  will be  considered  to be made on
         account of an immediate and  heavy financial need of a Participant only
         if the Committee  determines that such  withdrawal is on account of (i)
         expenses  for  medical care  described in  Section 213(d)  of the  Code


                                      -28-




<PAGE>



         previously  incurred  by  such  Participant  or his  or  her  spouse or
         dependents  (as defined  in Section  152 of the Code)  or necessary for
         such individuals  to obtain such care,  (ii) costs  directly related to
         the purchase  of a principal  residence for such Participant (excluding
         mortgage payments),  (iii)  payment of  tuition and related educational
         fees  for   the  next  12  months   of  post-secondary  education   for
         such  Participant or  his or  her spouse, children or dependents (as so
         defined),  or (iv)  payments necessary to prevent  the eviction of such
         Participant from his or her  principal residence or  foreclosure on the
         mortgage of such residence.

                 (c) A hardship  withdrawal  will  be considered to be necessary
         to satisfy an immediate and heavy financial need  of a Participant only
         if the Committee  determines that (i)  the amount of such withdrawal is
         not in excess  of the amount of such need plus any amounts necessary to
         pay any federal,  state or local  income taxes or  penalties reasonably
         anticipated to  result from  the withdrawal,  and (ii) such Participant
         has obtained  all distributions  and withdrawals,  other than  hardship
         withdrawals,  and all  nontaxable loans  currently available  under all
         plans maintained by the Employers.

                 (d) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         if  a  Participant  makes  a  hardship  withdrawal,   (i)  no   Pre-Tax
         Contributions or Pre-Tax Bonus Contributions shall be made on behalf of
         such  Participant for 6 months after  receipt of such withdrawal and no
         contributions shall  be made by or on behalf of such Participant to any
         other  deferred  compensation  plan   maintained  by  an  Employer   or
         Affiliated  Company for  6 months  after receipt of such withdrawal and
         (ii) the Total Pre-Tax Contributions made on behalf of such Participant
         for the  calendar  year immediately following the calendar year of such
         withdrawal shall not  exceed the  amount by  which the limitation under
         Section  402(g)  of the  Code for such next  calendar  year exceeds the
         amount  of  the  Total  Pre-Tax  Contributions  made  on behalf of such
         Participant for the calendar year of such withdrawal.

         Section 6.7 Distributions to Minors and Persons Under Legal Disability.
If any  distribution under the Plan  becomes payable to a  minor or other person
under a legal  disability,  such distribution  may be made to the duly appointed
guardian or other  legal representative  of the  estate of such  minor or person
under legal disability.

         Section 6.8 Benefits Payable to Missing Participant or Beneficiary.  If
the  Committee  cannot  locate  a  Participant  or  beneficiary  entitled  to  a
distribution  under this  Plan  within  a  period  of  three  years  after  such
Participant or  beneficiary becomes  entitled to the  distribution,  the amounts
credited to  the Accounts of such Participant or beneficiary shall be forfeited;
provided,  however,   that  if  a  claim  for  any  such  forfeited  amounts  is
subsequently  made by any  person entitled  to the  distribution, such forfeited
amounts shall be restored (without adjustment for  earnings or appreciation) out
of current-year  forfeitures,  or if such  forfeitures are insufficient,  by  an
additional Employer contribution.


                                      -29-




<PAGE>



         Section 6.9  Plan Loans.

                 (a)  Subject   to  such  conditions  and  limitations   as  the
         Committee  may  from time  to time  prescribe  for  application  to all
         Participants and beneficiaries on a uniform basis,  at the request of a
         Participant or beneficiary  of a deceased Participant who is a party in
         interest  (within  the  meaning  of  Section  3(14)  of  the   Employee
         Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended) with respect to the
         Plan  (hereinafter called  the "Borrower"),  the Committee shall direct
         the Trustee  to loan to  such Borrower from his or her  Accounts (other
         than the Borrower's Matching Plan Account and  Mesa Premium Account) an
         amount of money which,  when added to the  total outstanding balance of
         all other  loans to  such Borrower  from the  Plan or  from a qualified
         employer  plan  (within  the  meaning  of  Section  72(p) of  the Code)
         maintained  by an Employer or  Affiliated Company,  does not exceed the
         lesser of (i)  $50,000 (reduced, however, by the excess, if any, of the
         highest  total outstanding balance  of all such  other loans during the
         one-year period  ending on  the day  before the date such loan is made,
         over the outstanding  balance of all such  other loans on the date such
         loan is made),  or (ii) one-half  of such Participant's Vested Interest
         under the Plan (or, in the case of a loan to a beneficiary, one-half of
         such beneficiary's Accounts).

                 (b) Any such  loan made to a Borrower  shall be  evidenced by a
         promissory  note  or  other  evidence of  indebtedness  payable  to the
         Trustee, shall bear a reasonable rate of interest,  shall be secured by
         one-half of  the Participant's  vested interest  under the Plan (or, in
         the case of a loan to a beneficiary,  by one-half of such beneficiary's
         Accounts),  shall be repayable  in substantially equal payments no less
         frequently than quarterly and  shall be repayable within five years or,
         in the case of a  loan that is to  be used to acquire any dwelling unit
         which within a reasonable period of time is to be used as the principal
         residence  of the  Participant,  within such  period  greater than five
         years  as  shall  be  determined  by  the  Committee  in  its  absolute
         discretion.

                 (c) Any provision of this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding,
         (i) the  promissory note  or other  evidence of indebtedness evidencing
         any such loan shall be held by  the Trustee  as a segregated investment
         allocated to  and made  solely for the  benefit  of the  Account of the
         Borrower from which such loan was made,  and (ii) no loan shall be made
         to a married  Participant  from a  Prior  Plan Pre-Tax Account or Prior
         Plan Employer Account unless the spouse of such Participant consents in
         writing thereto within the 90-day  period preceding  the date such loan
         is made and such consent is witnessed by a notary public.

         Section 6.10  Qualified  Domestic  Relations  Orders.  Any provision of
this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding:

                 (a)  The  Committee  shall  establish  and  maintain  for  each
         alternate  payee named with respect  to a  Participant under a domestic
         relations order  which is determined by the Committee to be a qualified
         domestic  relations order  (as defined  in Section  414(p) of the Code)


                                      -30-




<PAGE>



         such separate  Accounts  as the  Committee  may deem to be necessary or
         appropriate to reflect such alternate  payee's interest in the Accounts
         of such Participant.  Such alternate payee's Accounts shall be credited
         with the  alternate payee's  interest in the  Participant's Accounts as
         determined under such qualified domestic relations order. The alternate
         payee may  change  investment  direction  with  respect  to  his or her
         Account balances in accordance with  Section 4.2 in  the same manner as
         the Participant.

                  (b) Except to the extent  otherwise provided  in the qualified
         domestic  relations order  naming an alternate payee  with respect to a
         Participant,  (i) the alternate payee may  designate a beneficiary on a
         form prescribed by and filed with or as directed by the Committee, (ii)
         if no such  beneficiary  is validly  designated  or if  the  designated
         beneficiary  is  a  person  who  predeceases the  alternate payee,  the
         beneficiary  of  the  alternate payee  shall  be the  alternate payee's
         estate,  and (iii)  the  beneficiary  of the  alternate payee  shall be
         accorded  under the  Plan  all of  the  rights  and  privileges  of the
         beneficiary of a Participant.

                  (c) An alternate  payee named  with respect  to a  Participant
         shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Plan in accordance
         with  the qualified  domestic relations  order  naming  such  alternate
         payee. Such distribution may be made only in  a form provided under the
         Plan and shall include only such amounts as are vested.  If a qualified
         domestic  relations order  so provides,  a lump sum distribution of the
         total vested  amount credited  to the alternate payee's Accounts may be
         made  to  the alternate  payee at  any  time  prior  to  the  date  the
         Participant  named in such  qualified domestic  relations order attains
         his or her earliest retirement age (as defined in  Section 414(p)(4)(B)
         of the Code). To the extent provided by a qualified domestic  relations
         order, the alternate payee named with respect to a Participant may make
         withdrawals (other than  hardship withdrawals) from his or her Accounts
         in accordance  with Article  VI in the  same  manner as the Participant
         with  respect  to  whom  such  alternate  payee was  named  under  said
         qualified domestic relations order.

                  (d) If  a  portion  of  any  unvested  amount  credited to the
         Employer Account or Matching Plan Account of a Participant named in the
         qualified domestic relations order is credited to the  Employer Account
         or Matching  Plan Account,  whichever is  applicable,  of the alternate
         payee named  in such  qualified domestic  relations order,  the portion
         credited  to the alternate  payee's Employer  Account or  Matching Plan
         Account shall vest and/or be forfeited at the same time and in the same
         manner as the Participant's Employer Account or  Matching Plan Account,
         whichever is applicable.

         Section 6.11   Transfer  of  Eligible   Rollover  Distribution.   If  a
Participant is entitled to receive an eligible rollover distribution (as defined
in Section  402(c) of  the Code  and the regulations  thereunder) from the Plan,
such  Participant may elect to have the Committee direct the Trustee to transfer
the  entire  amount  of  such  distribution  directly  to  any  of the following
"eligible  retirement  plans"  specified  by  such  Participant:  an  individual
retirement account  described  in Section  408(a) of  the  Code,  an  individual
retirement  annuity  described in  Section 408(b)  of the  Code  (other  than an


                                      -31-




<PAGE>



endowment contract),  a defined contribution plan qualified under Section 401(a)
of the Code the terms of which permit rollover  contributions or an annuity plan
described in Section  403(a) of the Code. If the surviving  spouse of a deceased
Participant is entitled to receive an eligible  rollover  distribution  from the
Plan, such surviving  spouse may elect to have the Committee  direct the Trustee
to  transfer  the  entire  amount  of such  distribution  directly  to either an
individual  retirement  account  described  in Section  408(a) of the Code or an
individual  retirement  annuity  described in Section  408(b) of the Code (other
than an endowment  contract) specified by such surviving spouse. If an alternate
payee under a qualified  domestic  relations order (as defined in Section 414(p)
of the Code) is the spouse or former spouse of the Participant  specified in the
qualified  domestic  relations order, this Section shall apply to such alternate
payee as if the alternate payee were a Participant. A distributee of an eligible
rollover distribution who is entitled to make an election under this Section may
specify that some portion less than the entire  amount of such  distribution  be
transferred in accordance  with this Section.  The preceding  provisions of this
Section to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) an "eligible retirement plan" shall
also mean an annuity  contract  described  in Section  403(b) of the Code and an
eligible plan under  Section  457(b) of the Code which is maintained by a state,
political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or
political  subdivision  of a state and which  agrees to  separately  account for
amounts  transferred  into  such plan from this  Plan,  (ii) the  definition  of
"eligible  retirement  plan" shall also apply in the case of a distribution to a
surviving  spouse,  or to a spouse or former spouse who is the  alternate  payee
under a qualified  domestic relations order, as defined in Section 414(p) of the
Code,  (iii) any amount that is  distributed on account of hardship shall not be
an eligible rollover  distribution and the distributee may not elect to have any
portion of such a distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan, and
(iv) a  portion  of a  distribution  shall not fail to be an  eligible  rollover
distribution   merely  because  the  portion  consists  of  after-tax   employee
contributions  which are not  includible  in gross  income,  provided  that such
portion may be transferred only to an individual  retirement  account or annuity
described  in  Section  408(a) or (b) of the  Code,  or to a  qualified  defined
contribution  plan described in Section 401(a) or 403(a) of the Code that agrees
to  separately  account  for  amounts  so  transferred,   including   separately
accounting  for the portion of such  distribution  which is  includible in gross
income and the portion of such distribution which is not so includible.


                                  ARTICLE VII.

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATION

         Section 7.1 401(k) and Matching Plan Committee.  The plan administrator
of the Plan shall be a 401(k) and Matching Plan  Committee  composed of at least
three  individuals  appointed by the Board of  Directors  of the  Company.  Each
member of the Committee so appointed shall serve in such office until his or her
death,  resignation  or removal by the Board of Directors  of the  Company.  The
Board of Directors of the Company may remove any member of the  Committee at any
time by giving written notice thereof to the members of the Committee. Vacancies
shall  likewise  be filled  from time to time by the Board of  Directors  of the



                                      -32-




<PAGE>



Company.  The members of the Committee  shall receive no  remuneration  from the
Plan for their services as Committee members.

         Section 7.2  Powers,  Duties  and  Liabilities of  the  Committee.  The
Committee  shall  have  discretionary  and  final  authority  to  interpret  and
implement the provisions of the Plan,  including without limitation authority to
determine  eligibility for benefits under the Plan, and shall perform all of the
duties and  exercise  all of the powers and  discretion  granted to it under the
terms of the Plan.  The Committee  shall act by a majority of its members at the
time in office and such action may be taken  either by a vote at a meeting or in
writing without a meeting.  The Committee may by such majority action  authorize
any one or more of its members to execute any document or documents on behalf of
the Committee,  in which event the Committee shall notify the Trustee in writing
of such action and the name or names of its member or members so  authorized  to
act.  Every  interpretation,  choice,  determination  or other  exercise  by the
Committee of any discretion given either expressly or by implication to it shall
be  conclusive  and binding upon all parties  directly or  indirectly  affected,
without  restriction,  however,  on the right of the Committee to reconsider and
redetermine such actions.  In performing any duty or exercising any power herein
conferred,  the  Committee  shall in no event perform such duty or exercise such
power  in  any  manner  which  discriminates  in  favor  of  Highly  Compensated
Employees.  The Employers  shall  indemnify and hold harmless each member of the
Committee against any claim, cost, expense (including attorneys' fees), judgment
or liability  (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval
of the  Employers)  arising out of any act or omission to act as a member of the
Committee appointed under this Plan, except in the case of willful misconduct.

         Section 7.3  Rules, Records and Reports.  The Committee  may adopt such
rules and procedures for the  administration  of the Plan as are consistent with
the terms hereof, and shall keep adequate records of the Committee's proceedings
and acts and of the status of the  Participants'  Accounts.  The  Committee  may
employ  such  agents,   accountants  and  legal  counsel  (who  may  be  agents,
accountants  or legal  counsel for an  Employer) as may be  appropriate  for the
administration  of the Plan. The Committee shall at least annually  provide each
Participant  with a report  reflecting  the status of his or her Accounts in the
Trust and shall  cause  such  other  information,  documents  or  reports  to be
prepared,  provided  and/or  filed  as may  be  necessary  to  comply  with  the
provisions of the Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974 or any other
law.

         Section 7.4 Administration Expenses and Taxes. Unless otherwise paid by
the  Employers in their  absolute  discretion,  the  Committee  shall direct the
Trustee to pay all  reasonable  and necessary  expenses  (including  the fees of
agents,  accountants and legal counsel)  incurred by the Committee in connection
with the administration of the Plan. Should any tax of any character  (including
transfer  taxes) be levied upon the Trust assets or the income  therefrom,  such
tax shall be paid from and charged against the assets of the Trust.


                                      -33-




<PAGE>



                                  ARTICLE VIII.

                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

         Section 8.1 Amendment. The Board of Directors of the Company shall have
the right and power at any time and from  time to time to amend  this  Plan,  in
whole or in part, on behalf of all  Employers.  Any such  amendment  made by the
Board of Directors  of the Company  shall be made by or pursuant to a resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, and shall be evidenced by
such resolution or by a written instrument  executed by such person as the Board
of Directors of the Company shall  authorize for such purpose.  With the consent
of the Board of Directors of the Company and subject to such procedure as it may
prescribe,  the Board of  Directors  of each  Employer  shall have the right and
power at any time and from time to time to amend this Plan, in whole or in part,
with respect to the Plan's  application  to the  Participants  of the particular
amending  Employer  and the assets  held in the Trust for their  benefit,  or to
transfer  such assets or any  portion  thereof to a new trust for the benefit of
such Participants.  However, in no event shall any amendment or new trust permit
any portion of the trust fund to be used for or  diverted  to any purpose  other
than the exclusive  benefit of the  Participants  and their  beneficiaries,  nor
shall any amendment or new trust reduce a  Participant's  Vested  Interest under
the Plan.

         Section 8.2  Termination.  The Board of Directors  of the Company shall
have the  right and  power at any time to  terminate  this Plan on behalf of all
Employers,  or to terminate this Plan as it applies to the  Participants who are
or were employees of any particular  Employer,  by giving written notice of such
termination  to the  Committee  and Trustee.  Any  provision of this Plan to the
contrary  notwithstanding,  upon the  termination or partial  termination of the
Plan  as to any  Employer,  or in  the  event  any  Employer  should  completely
discontinue  making  contributions to the Plan without formally  terminating it,
all  amounts  credited  to the  Accounts of the  affected  Participants  of that
particular Employer shall be fully vested.

         Section 8.3  Benefit Plan Design Committee.  Any action permitted to be
taken by the Board with  respect to the  amendment  of this Plan may be taken by
the Benefit Plan Design  Committee.  The Benefit Plan Design  Committee shall be
composed of at least two individuals  appointed by the Board of Directors of the
Company.  Each member of the Benefit Plan Design  Committee  so appointed  shall
serve in such  office  until his or her  death,  resignation  or  removal by the
Board.  The Board may remove any member of the Benefit Plan Design  Committee at
any time by giving  written  notice  thereof to the members of the Benefit  Plan
Design  Committee.  Vacancies  shall likewise be filled from time to time by the
Board.  The Benefit Plan Design Committee shall act by a majority of its members
at the time in office and such action may be taken either by a vote at a meeting
or in writing without a meeting.

                                      -34-




<PAGE>



                                   ARTICLE IX.

                              TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS

         Section 9.1 Top-Heavy Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, when used in this Article:

                  (a)  "Top-Heavy  Plan"  means   this  Plan  if,   as  of   the
         Determination  Date,  the aggregate  of the  Accounts of  Key Employees
         under  the Plan  exceeds  60% of the  aggregate of the  Accounts of all
         Participants and  former Participants under the  Plan. The aggregate of
         the Accounts of any Participant or former Participant shall include any
         distributions (other than related rollovers or  transfers from the Plan
         within the  meaning of  regulations  under Section  416(g) of the Code)
         made from such individual's Accounts during  the one-year period ending
         on  the  Determination  Date,  but  shall  not  include  any  unrelated
         rollovers or transfers (within the meaning of regulations under Section
         416(g)  of the Code)  made to such individual's Accounts after December
         31, 1983; provided,  however,  that in the  case of a distribution made
         for a reason other than separation from service,  death, or disability,
         this provision shall be applied by substituting  "five-year period" for
         "one-year period". The Account of any Participant or former Participant
         who (i) is not a Key Employee for the Plan Year in question but who was
         a Key Employee in a prior Plan Year,  or (ii) has not completed an Hour
         of Service during the one-year period ending on the Determination Date,
         shall not be taken into account.  The determination of whether the Plan
         is a Top-Heavy Plan shall  be made after aggregating all other plans of
         an Employer and any  Affiliated Company qualifying under Section 401(a)
         of the Code in which a Key  Employee is a  participant or which enables
         such a plan to meet the requirements of Section 401(a)(4) or 410 of the
         Code, and after aggregating any other plan of an Employer or Affiliated
         Company,  which  is not  already aggregated,  if such aggregation group
         would  continue to  meet the requirements of Sections 401(a)(4) and 410
         of the Code and if such permissive  aggregation  thereby eliminates the
         top-heavy status of any plan within such permissive  aggregation group.
         For  purposes of  determining  the  aggregate  of the  Accounts  of any
         Participant  or  former  Participant,  the  distributions included,  as
         provided  above,  shall include  distributions under  a terminated plan
         which,  had it not been terminated, would have been aggregated with the
         Plan under  Section  416(g)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.  The determination of
         whether this Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan shall be made in  accordance with
         Section 416(g) of the Code.

                  (b) "Determination Date" means,  for purposes  of  determining
         whether the Plan is  a Top-Heavy Plan for a particular  Plan Year,  the
         last day of the preceding Plan Year.

                  (c) "Key Employee"  means  any  Employee  or  former  Employee
         (including a beneficiary of such  Employee or  former  Employee) who at
         any time during the Plan Year that includes the Determination Date is:


                                      -35-




<PAGE>



                           (1) an officer of an Employer having Compensation for
                  such  Plan Year  greater  than  $130,000  (as  adjusted  under
                  Section 416(i)(1) of the  Code for Plan  Years beginning after
                  December 31, 2002);

                           (2)  a 5% owner of the Employer; or

                           (3)  a 1% owner of the Employer  having  Compensation
                  for such Plan Year of more than $150,000.

         The determination of  who is a  Key Employee will be made in accordance
         with Section 416(i)(1) of the Code  and the  applicable regulations and
         other guidance of general applicability issued thereunder.

                  (d) "Non-Key Employee"  means any  Employee or former Employee
         (including a  beneficiary  of such Employee or  former Employee) who is
         not a Key Employee.

         Section 9.2  Minimum Contribution  Requirement.  Any  provision of this
Plan to the contrary  notwithstanding,  if the Plan is a Top-Heavy  Plan for any
Plan Year,  then the Employers will  contribute to the Employer  Account of each
Non-Key  Employee who is both  eligible to  participate  and in the employ of an
Employer on the last day of such Plan Year, an amount  which,  when added to the
total amount of Matching Contributions and forfeitures otherwise allocable under
the Plan to such Non-Key  Employee for such year,  shall equal the lesser of (i)
3% of such Non-Key  Employee's  Compensation for such year or (ii) the amount of
contributions (including Total Pre-Tax Contributions) and forfeitures (expressed
as a percentage of  Compensation)  allocable  under the Plan for or on behalf of
the Key Employee for whom such percentage is the highest for the Plan Year after
taking  into  account  contributions  under  other  defined  contribution  plans
maintained by the Employer in which a Key Employee is a participant  (as well as
any other plan of an Employer which enables such a plan to meet the requirements
of Section  401(a)(4) or 410 of the Code);  provided,  however,  that no minimum
contribution  shall be made for a Non-Key  Employee  under this  Section for any
Plan Year if the Employer maintains another qualified plan under which a minimum
benefit  or  contribution  is being  accrued  or made for such Plan Year for the
Non-Key  Employee  in  accordance  with  Section  416(c) of the Code.  A Non-Key
Employee who is not a Participant,  but for whom a contribution is made pursuant
to this  Section,  shall be  accorded  all of the  rights  and  privileges  of a
Participant   under  the  Plan   except  that  no   contributions   (other  than
contributions  pursuant to this Section)  shall be made for or on behalf of such
Non-Key  Employee  until  he or she  meets  the  eligibility  and  participation
requirements of Article II.

         Section 9.3 Minimum Vesting Schedule. Any provision of this Plan to the
contrary  notwithstanding,  if the Plan is a  Top-Heavy  Plan for any Plan Year,
then  effective  as of  the  first  day  of  such  Plan  Year  with  respect  to
Participants  who  complete an Hour of Service on or after such day, the vesting
schedule  provided  in  Section  5.2 shall be  applied  to that  portion of such
Participants'  Employer Account which is attributable to any amounts credited to



                                      -36-




<PAGE>



his or her Employer  Nonelective  Contribution Account under the Superseded Plan
as in effect on September 30, 1997, as if to read as follows:
<TABLE>

                      Period of Service
                  Completed by Participant           Percentage Vested
                  ------------------------           -----------------
<S>               <C>                                <C>
                      Less than 3 years                     None
                       3 or more years                      100%

</TABLE>


                                   ARTICLE X.

                        MISCELLANEOUS GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 10.1  Spendthrift  Provision.  No  right  or  interest  of  any
Participant  or  beneficiary  under  the Plan may be  assigned,  transferred  or
alienated,  in whole or in part,  either directly or by operation of law, and no
such right or interest shall be liable for or subject to any debt, obligation or
liability of such Participant or beneficiary;  provided,  however,  that nothing
herein shall prevent the payment of amounts from a Participant's  Accounts under
the Plan in  accordance  with the terms of a court order which the Committee has
determined  to be a qualified  domestic  relations  order (as defined in Section
414(p) of the Code).

         Section 10.2  Claims Procedure.  If any person  (hereinafter called the
"Claimant") feels that he or she is being denied a benefit to which he or she is
entitled under the Plan, such Claimant may file a written claim for said benefit
with any member of the  Committee.  Within 60 days of the  receipt of such claim
the Committee shall determine and notify the Claimant as to whether he or she is
entitled to such benefit.  Such notification shall be in writing and, if denying
the claim for benefit,  shall set forth the  specific  reason or reasons for the
denial,  make specific  reference to the pertinent  provisions of the Plan,  and
advise the  Claimant  that he or she may,  within 60 days of the receipt of such
notice,  in writing  request to appear  before  the  Committee  for a hearing to
review  such  denial.  Any  such  hearing  shall  be  scheduled  at  the  mutual
convenience of the Committee or its designated  representative and the Claimant,
and  at  such   hearing  the  Claimant   and/or  his  or  her  duly   authorized
representative  may examine any  relevant  documents  and present  evidence  and
arguments  to support  the  granting  of the benefit  being  claimed.  The final
decision of the Committee with respect to the claim being reviewed shall be made
within 60 days following the hearing  thereon and the Committee shall in writing
notify the Claimant of its final decision, again specifying the reasons therefor
and the pertinent  provisions of the Plan upon which such decision is based. The
final decision of the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties
having or claiming to have an interest in the matter being reviewed.

         Section 10.3  Maximum Contribution Limitation.  Any  provision  of this
Plan to the  contrary  notwithstanding  (except  to the extent  permitted  under
Section 3.3 of the Plan and Section 414(v) of the Code, if applicable),  the sum
of  (i)  the  Employer  contributions,  (ii)  the  forfeitures,  and  (iii)  the


                                      -37-




<PAGE>



Participant   contributions   (excluding  rollover  contributions  and  employee
contributions to a simplified  employee pension  allowable as a deduction,  each
within the meaning specified in Section  415(c)(2) of the Code),  allocated to a
Participant  with  respect to a Plan Year shall in no event exceed the lesser of
$40,000 (as adjusted for increases in the cost-of-living under Section 415(d) of
the Code) or 100% of such  Participant's  Compensation  for that  year.  For the
purposes of applying the limitation  imposed by this Section,  each Employer and
its Affiliated Companies shall be considered a single employer,  and all defined
contribution  plans  (meaning plans  providing for  individual  accounts and for
benefits  based  solely upon the amounts  contributed  to such  accounts and any
forfeitures,  income,  expenses,  gains and losses  allocated to such  accounts)
described in Section 415(k) of the Code,  whether or not terminated,  maintained
by an Employer or its Affiliated Companies shall be considered a single plan. If
the total amount  allocable to a  Participant's  Accounts for a particular  Plan
Year  would,  but for this  sentence,  exceed  the  foregoing  limitation,  such
Participant's  After-Tax  Contributions  shall first be distributed and then, to
the extent  necessary,  Total Pre-Tax  Contributions  shall be distributed first
from any Pre-Tax Bonus  Contributions and then from Pre-Tax  Contributions.  Any
Matching  Contributions  corresponding to any distributed Pre-Tax  Contributions
shall be credited to a suspense account and thereafter reallocated (prior to the
allocation  of  subsequent   forfeitures   and  the  making  of  any  additional
contributions  to  the  Plan)  to  reduce  the  earliest   subsequent   Matching
Contributions  an  Employer  would  otherwise  be  required  to make to the Plan
pursuant  to Section  3.2 for such year and the next  succeeding  Plan Year.  No
adjustment shall be made to such suspense account to reflect income, profits and
losses,   expenses  or  other  transactions  affecting  the  Plan.  Any  Pre-Tax
Contributions  or  Pre-Tax  Bonus  Contributions  distributed  to a  Participant
pursuant to this  Section  shall not be taken into account in  determining  such
Participant's actual deferral percentage for purposes of Section 3.7.

         Section 10.4  Employment Noncontractual. The establishment of this Plan
shall not enlarge or  otherwise  affect the terms of any  Employee's  employment
with an Employer and an Employer may terminate the employment of any Employee as
freely and with the same effect as if this Plan had not been adopted.

         Section 10.5  Limitations  on  Responsibility.  The  Employers  do  not
guarantee or indemnify the Trust against any loss or  depreciation of its assets
which may occur,  nor  guarantee  the  payment  of any  amount  which may become
payable to a Participant or his or her beneficiaries  pursuant to the provisions
of this Plan. All payments to Participants and their beneficiaries shall be made
by the Trustee at the direction of the  Committee  solely from the assets of the
Trust  and the  Employers  shall  have no legal  obligation,  responsibility  or
liability for any such payments.

         Section 10.6  Merger or Consolidation. In no  event shall  this Plan be
merged or consolidated  into or with any other plan, nor shall any of its assets
or liabilities be transferred to any other plan,  unless each Participant  would
be  entitled  to  receive  a  benefit  if the  plan  in  which  he or  she  then
participates  terminated  immediately  following such merger,  consolidation  or
transfer,  which is equal to or  greater  than the  benefit he or she would have
been entitled to receive if the Plan had been  terminated  immediately  prior to
such merger, consolidation or transfer.


                                      -38-




<PAGE>


         Section 10.7  Applicable Law. This Plan shall be governed and construed
in  accordance  with the  internal  laws  (and not the  principles  relating  to
conflicts of laws) of the State of Texas except where superseded by federal law.

         Section 10.8  USERRA Compliance.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
Plan to the contrary, contributions, benefits and service credit with respect to
qualified military service will be provided in accordance with Section 414(u) of
the Code.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  this restatement has been executed as of this ____
day of December, 2001, to be effective as of January 1, 2002.

                           PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.



                           By______________________________________________
                             Larry Paulsen, Vice President - Administration





                                      -39-




<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>exh21_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXH 21.1 PIONEER SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.1


                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization                          Subsidiaries
- ---------------------   ------------------------------------------------------
Delaware                Bridge Oil (U.S.A.) Inc.
Delaware                DMLP Co.
Netherlands             D, P & D Investments B.V.
Delaware                Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                   Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Australia               Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Holdings Pty
                          Limited
Australia               Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Pty Limited
Delaware                Pioneer International Resources Company
Texas                   Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Delaware                Pioneer Natural Resources Alaska, Inc.
Cayman Islands          Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd.
Argentina               Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.
Cayman Islands          Pioneer Natural Resources Borj El Khadra Ltd.
Canada                  Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Cayman Islands          Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Texas                   Pioneer Natural Resources  Scholarship Foundation
South Africa            Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty) Limited
Argentina               Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Cayman Islands          Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd.
Delaware                Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Bahamas                 Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Bahamas                 Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Texas                   Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                Westpan NGL LP
Delaware                Westpan Properties, Inc.
Nevada                  Westpan Resources Company
Delaware                Westpan Resources LP


                        Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                        is the managing general partner

Delaware                Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P.
Texas                   Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>exh23_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXH 23.1 ERNST & YOUNG CONSENT
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1



                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
333-88438,  No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No.  333-39153,  No. 333-39249,  No.
33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No. 333-88478,  No.
333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No. 333-  39381) on Form S-3 of Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company and the related  Prospectuses of our report dated January 24,
2003, with respect to the consolidated  financial  statements of Pioneer Natural
Resources Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002.


                                           Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
February 19, 2003





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>exh23_2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXH 23.2 NETHERLAND, SEWELL CONSENT
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.2



            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS


We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements (No.  333-88438,  No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153,  No.
333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No.
333-88478,  No.  333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No.  333- 39381) on Form S-3 of
Pioneer Natural Resources Company and the related  Prospectuses of the reference
of Netherland,  Sewell & Associates,  Inc. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2002 of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company and its
subsidiaries, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


                                  NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.


                                  By:  Frederic D. Sewell
                                       --------------------------------------
                                       Frederic D.  Sewell
                                       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Dallas, Texas
February 17, 2003



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>exh23_3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXH 23.3 GAFFNEY, CLINE CONSENT
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.3



                  CONSENT OF GAFFNEY, CLINE & ASSOCIATES, INC.


As the  independent  reserve  engineers for Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company
(Pioneer),  Gaffney, Cline & Associates,  Inc. (GCA) hereby confirms that it has
granted and not  withdrawn  its  consent to the  reference  in the  Registration
Statements (No.  333-88438,  No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153,  No.
333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No.
333-88478,  No.  333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 as
disclosed by Pioneer in its Form 10-K submission to the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission for the period ending December 31, 2002.




                                         GAFFNEY, CLINE & ASSOCIATES, INC.





Houston, Texas
February 19, 2003







<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
