-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MEMX07Hx4VepSPB1dcL7A9dlCAq0QzM4u9iYo1RjiH+WExfzbwjAR8X0EbxjEydA
 FHq87hCQEeAjjbezlhNdaw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-05-000076.txt : 20050222
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-05-000076.hdr.sgml : 20050221
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20050222094858
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-05-000076
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20041231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20050222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20050222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		05629526

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		900 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		900 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>pnr10k04.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004
<TEXT>
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

           / X / ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004

                                       or

              / / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the transition period from _______ to ________

                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                 75-2702753
  -------------------------------------------            -------------------
        (State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)                  Identification No.)

5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving, Texas                75039
- ------------------------------------------------             ----------
    (Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                                 on which registered
     -------------------                               -----------------------

     Common Stock...................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
YES    X      NO
      ---          ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  Registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
YES    X      NO
      ---          ---

Aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant  computed by reference to
the price at which the common  equity was last  sold  as of
the  last  business day of the  Registrant's  most recently
completed second fiscal quarter ...............................   $4,174,193,054

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
February 17, 2005..............................................      143,669,263

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)  Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 12, 2005
     - Referenced in Part III of this report.




<PAGE>



                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                           Page

Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein.............    4

                                     PART I

Item 1.         Business.................................................    5

                General..................................................    5
                Available Information....................................    5
                Evergreen Merger.........................................    5
                Mission and Strategies...................................    5
                Business Activities......................................    6
                Operations by Geographic Area............................    8
                Marketing of Production..................................    8
                Competition, Markets and Regulations.....................    9
                Risks Associated with Business Activities................   11

Item 2.         Properties...............................................   14

                Proved Reserves..........................................   14
                Description of Properties................................   15
                Selected Oil and Gas Information.........................   21

Item 3.         Legal Proceedings........................................   25

Item 4.         Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders......   25

                                     PART II

Item 5.         Market for Registrant's Common Stock, Related
                Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
                Securities...............................................   25

                Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity
                Compensation Plans.......................................   26
                Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and
                Affiliated Purchasers....................................   27

Item 6.         Selected Financial Data..................................   28

Item 7.         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                Condition and Results of Operations......................   29

                2004 Highlights and Events...............................   29
                2004 Financial and Operating Performance.................   30
                Evergreen Merger.........................................   30
                2005 Outlook and Activities..............................   30
                Field Fuel Reporting.....................................   33
                Critical Accounting Estimates............................   33
                Results of Operations....................................   35
                Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity.....   43
                New Accounting Pronouncement.............................   46


                                        2

<PAGE>




                            TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)


                                                                           Page

Item 7A.        Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
                Market Risk...............................................  47

                Quantitative Disclosures..................................  48
                Qualitative Disclosures...................................  52

Item 8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...............  55

                Index to Consolidated Financial Statements................  55
                Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm...  56
                Consolidated Financial Statements.........................  57
                Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................  62
                Unaudited Supplementary Information....................... 105

Item 9.         Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
                Accounting and Financial Disclosure....................... 112

Item 9A.        Controls and Procedures................................... 112

Item 9B.        Other Information......................................... 114

                                    PART III

Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant........ 114

Item 11.        Executive Compensation.................................... 114

Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                and Management............................................ 114

Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions............ 114

Item 14.        Principal Accountant Fees and Services.................... 114

                                     PART IV

Item 15.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules................... 115

                Signatures................................................ 121

                Exhibit Index............................................. 122


Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

     Parts I and II of this annual  report on Form 10-K (the  "Report")  contain
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking   statements.   See  "Item  1.  Business  -  Competition,   Markets  and
Regulations" and "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with Business  Activities"
for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of
Pioneer Natural Resources  Company to achieve the anticipated  results described
in the forward-looking statements.



                                        3

<PAGE>



Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

     Within this Report,  the following oil and gas terms and  conventions  have
specific meanings:

       o  "Bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 United States gallons.
       o  "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet.
       o  "BOE" means a  barrel of  oil equivalent and is a  standard convention
          used to  express oil  and gas  volumes on  a comparable oil equivalent
          basis.  Gas equivalents  are  determined  under  the  relative  energy
          content method by  using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil
          or NGL.
       o  "Btu" means  British thermal  unit and  is a measure  of the amount of
          energy required to raise  the temperature  of one  pound of  water one
          degree Fahrenheit.
       o  "GAAP" means accounting  principles that are generally accepted in the
          United States.
       o  "LIBOR" means London Interbank Offered Rate, which is a market rate of
          interest.
       o  "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls.
       o  "MBOE" means one thousand BOEs.
       o  "MMBOE" means one million BOEs.
       o  "Mcf" means  one thousand  cubic feet  and is a measure of natural gas
          volume.
       o  "MMBtu" means one million Btus.
       o  "MMcf" means one million cubic feet.
       o  "NGL" means natural gas liquid.
       o  "NYMEX" means The New York Mercantile Exchange.
       o  "NYSE" means The New York Stock Exchange.
       o  "Pioneer" or the "Company" means Pioneer Natural Resources Company and
          its subsidiaries.
       o  "Proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil,  natural
          gas,  and natural  gas liquids  which geological  and engineering data
          demonstrate with  reasonable  certainty  to be  recoverable  in future
          years from known  reservoirs  under  existing  economic and  operating
          conditions,  i.e.,  prices and  costs as  of the  date the estimate is
          made.  Prices  include  consideration of  changes in  existing  prices
          provided  only by  contractual  arrangements,  but not on  escalations
          based upon future conditions.
                (i) Reservoirs are  considered proved if  economic producibility
           is  supported by  either actual  production or  conclusive  formation
           test.  The area  of a  reservoir  considered proved includes (A) that
           portion  delineated  by   drilling  and  defined  by  gas-oil  and/or
           oil-water  contacts,  if  any;  and  (B)  the  immediately  adjoining
           portions not  yet drilled,  but which  can be  reasonably  judged  as
           economically  productive on  the basis  of available  geological  and
           engineering data.  In the absence of  information on fluid  contacts,
           the lowest  known structural occurrence of  hydrocarbons controls the
           lower proved limit of the reservoir.
                (ii) Reserves  which   can  be  produced   economically  through
           application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection)
           are included in the "proved"  classification when  successful testing
           by a pilot project,  or the operation  of an installed program in the
           reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the
           project or program was based.
                (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:
           (A) oil that  may  become  available  from  known  reservoirs  but is
           classified  separately as "indicated  additional reserves"; (B) crude
           oil, natural gas,  and natural gas liquids,  the recovery of which is
           subject to  reasonable doubt  because of  uncertainty  as to geology,
           reservoir  characteristics,  or  economic  factors;  (C)  crude  oil,
           natural gas,  and  natural gas liquids,  that may  occur in undrilled
           prospects; and (D) crude oil,  natural gas, and natural  gas liquids,
           that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such
           sources.
       o   "SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
       o   "Standardized Measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated
           future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with
           the  rules  and regulations  of the SEC,  using prices  and costs  in
           effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate.
       o   With  respect  to  information  on the  working  interest  in  wells,
           drilling  locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and
           acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations
           and acres by the  Company's working interest in such wells,  drilling
           locations or  acres.  Unless  otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling
           locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells,
           drilling locations or acres.
       o   Unless otherwise  indicated,  all currency  amounts are  expressed in
           U.S. dollars.


                                        4



<PAGE>



                                     PART I


ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

     Pioneer is a Delaware  corporation  whose common stock is listed and traded
on the NYSE.  The Company is a large  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and
production  company with  operations in the United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

     The  Company's  executive  offices are located at 5205 N.  O'Connor  Blvd.,
Suite  900,  Irving,  Texas  75039.  The  Company's  telephone  number  is (972)
444-9001.  The Company  maintains  other offices in Anchorage,  Alaska;  Denver,
Colorado; Midland, Texas; Buenos Aires, Argentina;  Calgary, Canada; Libreville,
Gabon;  Capetown,  South Africa and Tunis,  Tunisia.  At December 31, 2004,  the
Company  had  1,550  employees,  889 of whom  were  employed  in field and plant
operations.

Available Information

     Pioneer files annual,  quarterly and current reports,  proxy statements and
other  documents  with the SEC under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934.  The
public may read and copy any  materials  that Pioneer  files with the SEC at the
SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W.,  Washington,  D.C. 20549.
The public may obtain  information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
by calling  the SEC at  1-800-SEC-0330.  Also,  the SEC  maintains  an  Internet
website that  contains  reports,  proxy and  information  statements,  and other
information regarding issuers,  including Pioneer, that file electronically with
the SEC. The public can obtain any documents  that Pioneer files with the SEC at
http://www.sec.gov.

     The Company also makes  available free of charge on or through its internet
website  (www.pioneernrc.com)  its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q,  Current  Reports on Form 8-K and, if  applicable,  amendments  to
those reports  filed or furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act
as soon as reasonably  practicable after it  electronically  files such material
with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Evergreen Merger

     On  September  28,  2004,  Pioneer  completed  its  merger  with  Evergreen
Resources,  Inc.  ("Evergreen").  Pioneer acquired the common stock of Evergreen
for a total purchase price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was comprised of
cash and Pioneer common stock. At the merger date,  Evergreen's  proved reserves
were  262.2  MMBOE.  Evergreen  was a  publicly-traded  independent  oil and gas
company  primarily  engaged  in the  production,  development,  exploration  and
acquisition of North American unconventional natural gas. Evergreen was based in
Denver,  Colorado  and was one of the  leading  developers  of coal bed  methane
reserves in the United States.  Evergreen's  operations were principally focused
on  developing  and  expanding  its coal bed methane  field located in the Raton
Basin in southern Colorado.  Evergreen also had operations in the Piceance Basin
in western  Colorado,  the Uinta Basin in eastern  Utah and the  Western  Canada
Sedimentary  Basin.  See Note C of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for more
information regarding the Evergreen merger.

Mission and Strategies

     The Company's mission is to provide  shareholders with superior  investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset value. The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are predicated
on  maintaining  financial   flexibility  and  capital  allocation   discipline.
Historically,  these  strategies have been anchored by the Company's  long-lived
Spraberry  oil field and Hugoton and West  Panhandle  gas fields'  reserves  and
production.  Since the fourth  quarter of 2004, the strategy is also enhanced by
the newly acquired Raton gas field. Underlying these fields are approximately 75
percent of the  Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves as of December 31, 2004.
These fields have a remaining  productive life in excess of 40 years. The stable
base of oil and gas  production  from these fields,  combined with the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico Canyon Express, Falcon area and Devils Tower projects which began
production in September  2002,  March 2003 and May 2004,  respectively,  and the


                                        5

<PAGE>



Sable oil  discovery  in South  Africa  which began  production  in August 2003,
should  generate the operating  cash flows to fund the Company's $900 million to
$950 million  capital  budget for 2005 and allow the Company to further  enhance
its financial flexibility during 2005.

     During 2004, the Company  utilized  capital from its long-lived  Spraberry,
Hugoton and West  Panhandle  fields and  shorter-lived  deepwater Gulf of Mexico
projects to partially fund the merger with Evergreen and to selectively reinvest
in assets that the Company  believes  will offer  superior  investment  returns.
Similarly,  during 2005, the Company will continue to: (i)  selectively  explore
for and develop proved reserve  discoveries in areas that it believes will offer
superior reserve growth and profitability potential; (ii) evaluate opportunities
to acquire oil and gas properties under terms that will complement the Company's
exploration and development drilling  activities;  (iii) invest in the personnel
and technology  necessary to maximize the Company's  exploration and development
successes; and (iv) enhance liquidity, allowing the Company to take advantage of
future exploration,  development and acquisition  opportunities.  The Company is
committed  to  continuing  to enhance  shareholder  investment  returns  through
adherence to these strategies.

Business Activities

     The  Company  is an  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  production
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor qualitative  differentials,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from
units offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive  advantage is
gained in the oil and gas exploration and development  industry through superior
capital  investment  decisions,  technological  innovation  and  price  and cost
management.

     Petroleum industry. The petroleum industry has generally been characterized
by rising oil, NGL and gas commodity prices during 2004 and recent years. During
2004, the Company has also been affected by increasing  costs,  particularly the
cost of steel and higher drilling and well servicing rig rates. World oil prices
have  increased in response to political  unrest and supply  disruptions in Iraq
and Venezuela while North American gas prices have improved as supply and demand
fundamentals  have  strengthened.  Significant  factors  that will  impact  2005
commodity prices include the final resolution of issues currently impacting Iraq
and the Middle East in general,  the extent to which members of the Organization
of Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  ("OPEC") and other oil exporting nations are
able to continue to manage oil supply  through  export  quotas and overall North
American gas supply and demand fundamentals. To mitigate the impact of commodity
price volatility on the Company's net asset value,  Pioneer  utilizes  commodity
hedge contracts.  See "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market Risk" and Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included
in "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  information
regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 from the Company's hedging activities and the Company's open
hedge positions at December 31, 2004.

     The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is anchored by the  Spraberry  oil
field located in West Texas, the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas,
the Raton gas field  located in southern  Colorado  and the West  Panhandle  gas
field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has
exploration  and  development   opportunities  and/or  oil  and  gas  production
activities in the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast area and in Alaska, and
internationally in Argentina, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and
Tunisia.   Combined,   these  assets   create  a  portfolio  of  resources   and
opportunities  that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas, and that are also
well balanced  between  long-lived,  dependable  production and  exploration and
development  opportunities.  Additionally,  the Company has a team of  dedicated
employees that  represent the  professional  disciplines  and sciences that will
allow  Pioneer to  maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net asset  value
inherent in its physical assets.

     The Company provides  administrative,  financial and management  support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil,  NGL  and gas  reserves.  Production  operations  are  principally  located
domestically in Texas, Kansas,  Colorado,  Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, and
internationally in Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.

     Production.  The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average
daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development  drilling,  production
enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing
the  controllable  costs associated with the production  activities.  During the




                                        6

<PAGE>



year ended December 31, 2004, the Company's average daily  production,  on a BOE
basis,  increased  as a result of (i) gas  production  beginning in January 2004
from the Company's  Harrier gas field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (ii) oil
production  beginning in May 2004 from the  Company's  Devils Tower oil field in
the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (iii) gas production  beginning in June 2004 from
the Company's  Raptor and Tomahawk gas fields in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico,
(iv) a full  year of gas  production  from  the  Company's  Falcon  field in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (v) a full year of oil production  from the Company's
Adam field in Tunisia,  (vi) a full year of oil  production  from the  Company's
Sable field offshore South Africa, (vii) increased production from Argentina and
(viii) fourth  quarter  production  from the  properties  added in the Evergreen
merger. These increases more than offset normal production declines.  During the
year ended  December  31, 2003,  the  Company's  average  daily oil, NGL and gas
production  increased as a result of (i) a full year of gas production  from the
Company's  Canyon Express gas project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (ii) gas
production  beginning in March 2003 from the  Company's  Falcon gas field in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (iii) increased  production from Argentina  primarily
resulting from the resumption of oil drilling activities in the third quarter of
2002, (iv) oil production beginning in May 2003 from the Company's Adam field in
Tunisia and (v) oil production beginning in August 2003 from the Company's Sable
field offshore South Africa.  These increases more than offset normal production
declines.  During 2002, the Company's  average daily oil, NGL and gas production
decreased primarily due to normal production declines,  reduced Argentine demand
for gas, the Company's  curtailment of Argentine drilling  activities during the
first half of 2002 and the December  2001 sale of the  Company's  Rycroft/Spirit
River field in Canada.  Production,  price and cost  information with respect to
the Company's properties for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002 is set forth under "Item 2. Properties - Selected Oil and Gas Information -
Production, Price and Cost Data".

     Drilling  activities.  The  Company  seeks  to  increase  its  oil  and gas
reserves,  production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling
and  by  conducting  other  production  enhancement  activities,  such  as  well
recompletions.  During the three  years ended  December  31,  2004,  the Company
drilled  1,035 gross  (876.8 net) wells,  87 percent of which were  successfully
completed as productive  wells,  at a total  drilling cost (net to the Company's
interest) of $1.6  billion.  During 2004,  the Company  drilled 423 gross (384.8
net) wells. The Company's current 2005 capital expenditure budget is expected to
range from $900 million to $950 million.  The Company has allocated the budgeted
2005 capital  expenditures as follows:  approximately  75 percent to development
drilling and facility  activities and the balance of approximately 25 percent to
exploration activities.

     The Company  believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow growth. The
Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2004 include  proved  undeveloped
reserves and proved  developed  reserves  that are behind pipe of 161.1 MMBOE of
oil and NGLs and 1,356.6 Bcf of gas.  Development of these proved  reserves will
require  future  capital  expenditures.  The timing of the  development of these
reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's
expected operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company
believes that its current  portfolio of proved  reserves and unproved  prospects
provides attractive  development and exploration  opportunities for at least the
next three to five years.

     Exploratory  activities.  The Company has devoted  significant  efforts and
resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as
acquiring and drilling a portfolio of exploration  opportunities.  The Company's
commitment to exploration has resulted in significant  discoveries,  such as the
1998 Sable oil field discovery in South Africa; the 1999 Aconcagua,  2000 Devils
Tower,  2001 Falcon and 2003  Harrier,  Tomahawk and Raptor  discoveries  in the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico;  and the 2002 Borj El Khadra permit  discovery in the
Ghadames basin onshore Southern Tunisia. The Company currently  anticipates that
its 2005  exploration  efforts  will be  approximately  25 percent of total 2005
capital expenditures and will be concentrated domestically in the Gulf of Mexico
and Alaska,  and  internationally in Africa,  Argentina and Canada.  Exploratory
drilling  involves  greater  risks of dry holes or  failure  to find  commercial
quantities  of  hydrocarbons  than  development  drilling or  enhanced  recovery
activities.  See "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with Business Activities -
Drilling activities" below.

     Acquisition  activities.  The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide exploration/exploitation  opportunities. During the years ended December
31, 2004,  2003 and 2002,  the Company  expended  $2.6 billion  (including  $2.5
billion  associated  with the  Evergreen  merger),  $151.0  million  and  $195.5
million,  respectively,  of acquisition  capital to purchase  proved oil and gas




                                        7

<PAGE>



properties,  including  additional  interests  in its  existing  assets,  and to
acquire new prospects for future  exploitation and exploration  activities.  See
Note C of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the Company's
acquisitions during 2004, 2003 and 2002.

     The Company  periodically  evaluates and pursues acquisition  opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;   entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal
financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.

     Asset  divestitures.  The Company  regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does
not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  increasing
financial flexibility through reduced debt levels.

     During the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  the  Company's
divestitures  consisted of the early  termination of derivative  hedge contracts
and the sales of oil and gas  properties  and other  assets for net  proceeds of
$1.7 million, $35.7 million and $118.9 million, respectively,  which resulted in
net  divestiture  gains  of  $39  thousand,   $1.3  million  and  $4.4  million,
respectively. The net cash proceeds were primarily used to fund additions to oil
and gas properties or to reduce the Company's outstanding indebtedness. See Note
O of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  specific  information  regarding  the
Company's asset divestitures.

     The  Company  anticipates  that it  will  continue  to  sell  non-strategic
properties  or other  assets  from time to time to  increase  capital  resources
available  for  other  activities,   to  achieve  operating  and  administrative
efficiencies and to improve profitability.

Operations by Geographic Area

     The Company operates in one industry segment.  During the three years ended
December  31,  2004,  the  Company  had oil and gas  producing  and  development
activities in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada,  South Africa and Tunisia,
and  had  exploration  activities  in  the  United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,
Equatorial  Guinea,  Gabon,  South  Africa and  Tunisia.  See Note S of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for geographic  operating  segment  information,  including
results of operations and segment assets.

Marketing of Production

     General. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods
that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas
production are negotiated based on factors normally  considered in the industry,
such as the index or spot  price  for gas or the  posted  price  for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves,  commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. In Argentina, the
Company  receives  significantly  lower prices for its production as a result of
the  Argentine   government's   imposed  price  limitations.   See  "Qualitative
Disclosures" in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market
Risk" for additional  discussion of Argentine foreign  currency,  operations and
price risk.

     Significant  purchasers.  During  the year ended  December  31,  2004,  the
Company's  primary  purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Williams Power Company,
Inc.  (12  percent),   Occidental   Energy   Marketing,   Inc.  (six   percent),
ConocoPhillips (six percent),  Enterprise Products Operating L.P. (five percent)
and Plains  Marketing LP (four percent).  The Company is of the opinion that the
loss of any one  purchaser  would not have an adverse  effect on its  ability to
sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

     Hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity derivative contracts in
order to (i)  reduce  the  effect of price  volatility  on the  commodities  the
Company produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting




                                        8

<PAGE>



and  expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce  commodity  price risk  associated with
certain capital projects.  See "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"  for a  description  of  the
Company's hedging activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About  Market  Risk" and Note K of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary   Data"  for
information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 from the Company's commodity hedging activities
and the Company's open commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2004.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

     Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number
of companies and  individuals  engage in the  exploration for and development of
oil and gas  properties,  and there is a high degree of competition  for oil and
gas properties suitable for development or exploration.  Acquisitions of oil and
gas  properties  have been an important  element of the  Company's  growth.  The
Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties  that  complement
its  operations,   provide   exploration  and  development   opportunities   and
potentially  provide superior returns on investment.  The principal  competitive
factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties  include the staff and data
necessary  to  identify,  investigate  and  purchase  such  properties  and  the
financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the
Company's  competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other
resources greater than those of the Company.

     Markets.  The  Company's  ability to produce and market  oil,  NGLs and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these  commodity
prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected,  the prices for any
commodity that the Company  produces will generally  approximate  current market
prices in the geographic region of the production.

     Governmental  regulations.  Enterprises  that  sell  securities  in  public
markets are subject to  regulatory  oversight by agencies  such as the SEC. This
regulatory  oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing
and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  that will  ensure  that
material information  relating to the Company and its consolidated  subsidiaries
is made known to the Company's  management and that the financial statements and
other  financial  information  included in this Report do not contain any untrue
statement of a material  fact,  or omit to state a material  fact,  necessary to
make the statements made in this Report not misleading.

     Oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  are also  subject to
various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign  agencies.
Additionally,  the Company's  operations are subject to state  conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign
governments  generally  impose a  production  or  severance  tax with respect to
production and sale of oil and gas within their  respective  jurisdictions.  The
regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's  cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

     Additional  proposals  and  proceedings  that might  affect the oil and gas
industry  are  considered  from time to time by  Congress,  the  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission,   state  regulatory  bodies,  the  courts  and  foreign
governments.  The Company  cannot  predict when or if any such  proposals  might
become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

     Environmental and health controls.  The Company's operations are subject to
numerous  federal,  state,  local and foreign laws and  regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict air emissions or other  discharges  resulting from the operation of gas
processing plants,  pipeline systems and other facilities that the Company owns.
Although  the Company  believes  that  compliance  with  environmental  laws and
regulations  will not have a material  adverse  effect on its future  results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities




                                        9

<PAGE>



are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

     The Comprehensive Environmental Response,  Compensation,  and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

     The Company generates wastes,  including hazardous wastes, that are subject
to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable
state statutes.  The United States  Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
hazardous  wastes may in the  future be  designated  as  hazardous  wastes,  and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

     The Company currently owns or leases,  and has in the past owned or leased,
properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production
of oil and gas  reserves.  Although the Company has used  operating and disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been
taken for disposal. In addition,  some of these properties have been operated by
third parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other
wastes was not under the  Company's  control.  These  properties  and the wastes
disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and analogous state and foreign
laws.  Under such laws,  the Company  could be  required to remove or  remediate
previously  disposed  wastes or property  contamination  or to perform  remedial
plugging operations to prevent future contamination.

     Federal  regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans
relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution
Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions of the federal Water  Pollution
Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the Clean Water Act ("CWA"),  and
other  statutes as they pertain to the  prevention of and response to oil spills
into navigable waters. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict joint and
several  liability  for all  containment  and cleanup  costs and  certain  other
damages  arising  from a spill,  including,  but not  limited  to,  the costs of
responding to a release of oil to surface waters. The CWA provides penalties for
any  discharges  of  petroleum  products in  reportable  quantities  and imposes
substantial   liability  for  the  costs  of  removing  a  spill.  OPA  requires
responsible   parties  to   establish   and   maintain   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

     Many  states in which the Company  operates  regulate  naturally  occurring
radioactive  materials ("NORM") and NORM wastes that are generated in connection
with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.  NORM wastes  typically
consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that become  concentrated in
pipe scale and in production  equipment.  Certain state regulations  require the
testing  of pipes  and  production  equipment  for the  presence  of  NORM,  the
licensing of NORM-contaminated  facilities and the careful handling and disposal
of NORM  wastes.  The  regulation  of NORM has minimal  effect on the  Company's
operations  because the Company  generates  only small  quantities of NORM on an
annual basis.




                                       10

<PAGE>




     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result
in a curtailment of production or processing,  a material  increase in the costs
of production,  development,  exploration  or processing or otherwise  adversely
affect the Company's future results of operations and financial condition.

     The  Company  employs an  environmental  director,  regulatory  manager and
regulatory and environmental  specialists charged with monitoring  environmental
and regulatory compliance.  The Company performs an environmental review as part
of the due diligence work on potential acquisitions. The Company is not aware of
any material  environmental legal proceedings pending against it or any material
environmental liabilities to which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

     The nature of the business activities  conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business activities.

     Commodity  prices.  The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future  rate of growth are highly  dependent  on oil and gas  prices,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the Company's  control.  Oil and gas prices
historically have been very volatile.  A significant downward trend in commodity
prices  would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  revenues,
profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances,  result in a
reduction in the carrying  value of the  Company's  oil and gas  properties  and
goodwill and the  recognition of deferred tax asset  valuation  allowances or an
increase to the Company's deferred tax asset valuation allowances,  depending on
the Company's tax attributes in each country in which it has activities.

     Drilling activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Because of the percentage of the
Company's  capital budget  devoted to higher risk  exploratory  projects,  it is
likely that the Company will continue to experience  exploration and abandonment
expense.

     Unproved  properties.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003,  the Company  carried
unproved  property  costs of $470.4  million and $179.8  million,  respectively.
Generally accepted  accounting  principles require periodic  evaluation of these
costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value.
These  evaluations  will be affected by the results of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of the  leases,  contracts  and permits  appurtenant  to such  projects.  If the
quantity of potential reserves  determined by such evaluations is not sufficient
to fully recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will  recognize
noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable  basis.  The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately the costs to develop the reserves,  the recoverable volumes
of reserves,  rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from
the  reserves and to assess  possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these
factors  affect  whether an  acquisition  will  ultimately  generate  cash flows
sufficient to provide a suitable  return on investment.  Even though the Company
performs a review of the  properties  it seeks to acquire  that it  believes  is
consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

     Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly  reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially



                                       11

<PAGE>



affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

     Operation of natural gas  processing  plants.  As of December 31, 2004, the
Company owned  interests in 11 natural gas  processing  plants and five treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the plants  and all five  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas processing  plants.  Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include
carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation  of a gas processing  plant or facility
could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result
in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source.

     Operating  hazards and  uninsured  losses.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering,  explosions, adverse weather
effects and pollution and other environmental  damage, any of which could result
in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or
destruction  of  wells,  production  facilities  or  other  property,   clean-up
responsibilities,  regulatory  investigations  and penalties  and  suspension of
operations.  Although the Company currently maintains insurance coverage that it
considers  reasonable  and that is  similar  to that  maintained  by  comparable
companies in the oil and gas industry,  it is not fully insured  against certain
of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of the
high premium costs associated with obtaining such insurance.

     Environmental.  The  oil and  gas  business  is  subject  to  environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and
discharges  of toxic  substances  or gases  that  could  expose  the  Company to
substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety
of federal,  state and foreign  laws and  regulations  govern the  environmental
aspects  of the  oil  and  gas  business.  Noncompliance  with  these  laws  and
regulations may subject the Company to penalties,  damages or other liabilities,
and compliance may increase the cost of the Company's operations.  Such laws and
regulations may also affect the costs of  acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business -
Competition,  Markets and Regulations - Environmental and health controls" above
for additional discussion related to environmental risks.

     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment of production or processing,  a material increase in the
costs  of  production,  development,  exploration  or  processing  or  otherwise
adversely  affect the  Company's  future  operations  and  financial  condition.
Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

     Debt restrictions and  availability.  The Company is a borrower under fixed
term  senior  notes  and  variable  rate  credit  facilities.  The  terms of the
Company's  borrowings under the senior notes and the credit  facilities  specify
scheduled  debt  repayments  and  require  the  Company to comply  with  certain
associated covenants and restrictions.  The Company's ability to comply with the
debt repayment  terms,  associated  covenants and  restrictions is dependent on,
among other  things,  factors  outside the  Company's  direct  control,  such as
commodity  prices,  interest rates and competition for available debt financing.
See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding the
Company's  outstanding  debt as of December  31,  2004 and the terms  associated
therewith.

     The Company's  ability to obtain  additional  financing is also impacted by
the Company's  debt credit  ratings.  See "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"  for a discussion of
the Company's debt credit ratings.

     Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly  competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations" above
for additional discussion regarding competition.




                                       12

<PAGE>



     Government regulation.  The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and  Regulations"   above  for  additional   discussion   regarding   government
regulation.

     International operations. At December 31, 2004, approximately 15 percent of
the  Company's  proved  reserves of oil,  NGLs and gas were located  outside the
United States (12 percent in Argentina, two percent in Canada and one percent in
Africa).  The success  and  profitability  of  international  operations  may be
adversely affected by risks associated with international activities,  including
economic and labor conditions,  political instability, tax laws (including host-
country  import-export,  excise and  income  taxes and  United  States  taxes on
foreign  subsidiaries)  and changes in the value of the U.S.  dollar  versus the
local  currencies in which oil and gas producing  activities may be denominated.
To the extent that the Company is involved in international activities,  changes
in  exchange  rates  may  adversely  affect  the  Company's  future  results  of
operations and financial condition. See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included
in "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations",  "Qualitative Disclosures" in "Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for information specific to Argentina's economic and political situation.

     Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist
in estimating  quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues  therefrom.
The  estimates of proved  reserves and related  future net revenues set forth in
this Report are based on various  assumptions,  which may ultimately prove to be
inaccurate.

     Petroleum  engineering  is a subjective  process of estimating  underground
accumulations  of oil and gas  that  cannot  be  measured  in an  exact  manner.
Estimates  of  economically  recoverable  oil and gas reserves and of future net
cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions,
including the following:

     o   historical production from the area compared with production from other
         producing areas,
     o   the quality and quantity of available data,
     o   the interpretation of that data,
     o   the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,
     o   assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices and
     o   assumptions concerning  future operating costs,  severance,  ad valorem
         and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.

     Because all reserve  estimates are to some degree  subjective,  each of the
following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves:

     o   the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered,
     o   the production and operating costs incurred,
     o   the amount and timing of future development expenditures and
     o   future oil and gas sales prices.

     Furthermore,  different reserve  engineers may make different  estimates of
reserves and cash flows based on the same available  data. The Company's  actual
production,  revenues and  expenditures  with respect to reserves will likely be
different from estimates and the difference may be material.

     As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from
proved  reserves are  generally  based on prices and costs as of the date of the
estimate,  while  actual  future  prices and costs may be  materially  higher or
lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:

     o   the amount and timing of actual production,
     o   supply and demand of oil and gas,
     o   increases or decreases in consumption and
     o   changes in governmental regulations or taxation.




                                       13

<PAGE>



     The  Company  reports all proved  reserves  held under  production  sharing
arrangements and concessions  utilizing the "economic  interest"  method,  which
excludes the host country's share of proved  reserves.  Estimated  quantities of
production sharing  arrangements  reported under the "economic  interest" method
are  subject  to  fluctuations  in the  price  of oil and  gas  and  recoverable
operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities
attributable to recovery of costs will change  inversely to changes in commodity
prices.

     Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis
for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and regulations of the
SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the date of
computation.  Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or
that will be  received  for oil and gas  production  because of  seasonal  price
fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any
date  are  not   necessarily   indicative  of  future   results  of  operations.
Accordingly,  estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially
different from the net revenues that are  ultimately  received.  Therefore,  the
estimates of discounted  future net cash flows or  Standardized  Measure in this
Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value
of the Company's proved reserves.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     The  information  included in this Report about the Company's  oil, NGL and
gas  reserves  as of  December  31,  2004 and 2003 was based on reserve  reports
audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSA") for the Company's major
properties in the United States, Argentina,  Canada and South Africa and reserve
reports  prepared  by the  Company's  engineers  for all other  properties.  The
reserve  audits  conducted  by NSA in  aggregate  represented  88 percent and 87
percent of the Company's  estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December
31, 2004 and 2003,  respectively.  The information included in this Report about
the  Company's  oil,  NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2002 was, in part,
based on reserve reports audited by independent  petroleum engineers and reserve
reports  prepared by the Company's  engineers.  These reserve  audits  conducted
represented 71 percent of the Company's  estimated proved quantities of reserves
as of December 31, 2002.

     The Company did not provide  estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves
during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002 to any federal  authority
or agency,  other than the SEC. The Company's  reserve  estimates do not include
any probable or possible reserves.

Proved Reserves

     The  Company's  proved  reserves  totaled 1.0 billion BOE,  789.1 MMBOE and
736.7 MMBOE at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing $6.6
billion, $4.6 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure or
$9.1 billion, $6.0 billion and $5.1 billion,  respectively,  on a pre-tax basis.
The  30  percent  and  45  percent  increases  in  proved  reserve  volumes  and
Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2004 were primarily due to:

     o   Evergreen merger - 262.2 MMBOE,
     o   other 2004 acquisitions - 16.0 MMBOE,
     o   extensions and discoveries in:
         -   Argentina - 25.8 MMBOE,
         -   United States - 10.5 MMBOE,
         -   Canada - 2.3 MMBOE and
         -   Africa - .5 MMBOE,
     o   negative revisions of 14.3 MMBOE primarily due to:
         -   16.6 MMBOE due to the cancellation of the Gabon project as a result
             of increasing costs,
         -   negative well  performance  in the  Portezuelo  Oeste gas  field in
             Argentina, offset by
         -   increased commodity prices extending the estimated economic life of
             various properties,
     o   production (including field fuel) during 2004 of 68.7 MMBOE and
     o   divestitures of 1.1 MMBOE.

     The seven percent and 11 percent  increases in proved  reserve  volumes and
Standardized Measure,  respectively,  during 2003 were primarily due to two core
area  acquisitions,  discoveries  in Gabon,  the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and
Tunisia  and  positive  reserve  revisions  due to  increased  commodity  prices
extending  the  estimated  economic  life  of  various   properties,   increased
recoverable  reserve  estimates  based on well  performance  and the addition of




                                       14

<PAGE>



reserves  resulting from the Company's  expanded  development  drilling program.
Partially  offsetting these reserve additions was 2003 production of 56.5 MMBOE,
including field fuel.

     On a BOE basis,  65 percent  of the  Company's  total  proved  reserves  at
December 31, 2004 were proved developed  reserves.  Based on reserve information
as of December 31, 2004, and using the Company's production  information for the
year then ended, the  reserve-to-production  ratio associated with the Company's
proved  reserves  was 15 years on a BOE  basis.  The  following  table  provides
information  regarding  the  Company's  proved  reserves and average daily sales
volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004:

           PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY SALES VOLUMES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   2004 Average Daily
                        Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2004 (a)                 Sales Volumes (b)
                     -------------------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
                       Oil                               Standardardized     Oil
                      & NGLs        Gas                      Measure        & NGLs        Gas
                      (MBbls)      (MMcf)        MBOE     (in thousands)    (Bbls)       (Mcf)         BOE
                     ---------    ---------   ----------   -----------     --------    ---------    ---------
<S>                  <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>             <C>         <C>          <C>
United States.....     363,257    3,000,335      863,313   $ 5,581,303       46,375      521,839     133,349
Argentina.........      33,168      560,374      126,564       647,292       10,080      121,654      30,356
Canada............       4,095      119,869       24,073       276,467        1,054       41,867       8,031
Africa............       8,271          -          8,271       138,013       11,676          -        11,676
                     ---------    ---------   ----------    ----------     --------    ---------    --------
Total.............     408,791    3,680,578    1,022,221   $ 6,643,075       69,185      685,360     183,412
                     =========    =========   ==========    ==========     ========    =========    ========
<FN>
- ----------------
(a)  The gas  reserves  contain  271.7  Bcf of gas  that  will be  produced  and
     utilized  as field  fuel.  Field  fuel is gas  consumed  to  operate  field
     equipment  (primarily  compressors)  prior to the gas being  delivered to a
     sales point.
(b)  The 2004  average  daily  sales  volumes  (i) do not include the field fuel
     produced, which averaged 4,374 BOE per day and (ii) were calculated using a
     366-day year and without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,
     divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the year.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The  following  table  represents  the  estimated  timing and cash flows of
developing the Company's proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Estimated
                                         Future        Future          Future        Future
                                       Production       Cash         Production    Development    Future Net
Years Ended December 31,                 (MBOE)        Inflows          Costs         Costs       Cash Flows
                                       ----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    ----------
                                                                  ($ in thousands)
<S>                                    <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
2005...............................        8,534     $   240,171     $   28,271     $  394,289    $ (182,389)
2006...............................       20,625         569,708         70,596        347,878       151,234
2007...............................       21,801         616,401         87,791        214,855       313,755
2008...............................       22,120         613,047         90,579        183,546       338,922
2009...............................       22,716         595,765         95,363        161,118       339,284
Thereafter.........................      257,752       8,085,106      2,133,005        204,888     5,747,213
                                       ---------      ----------      ---------      ---------     ---------
                                         353,548     $10,720,198     $2,505,605     $1,506,574    $6,708,019
                                       =========      ==========      =========      =========     =========
</TABLE>

Description of Properties

     As of December 31, 2004,  the Company has  production,  development  and/or
exploration  operations  in the United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,  Equatorial
Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

     Domestic.  The  Company's  domestic  operations  are located in the Permian
Basin, Mid-Continent,  Rocky Mountains,  Alaska, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf
Coast  areas of the United  States.  Approximately  75 percent of the  Company's
domestic  proved  reserves  at December  31, 2004 are located in the  Spraberry,
Hugoton,   West  Panhandle  and  Raton  fields.  These  mature  fields  generate
substantial operating  cash flow and some  have a  large portfolio  of low  risk



                                       15

<PAGE>



infill  drilling  opportunities.  The cash flows  generated  from  these  fields
provide funding for the Company's other  development and exploration  activities
both domestically and internationally.  During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company  expended  $2.9  billion in domestic  acquisition,  exploration  and
development drilling activities,  $2.5 billion of which related to the Evergreen
merger.  The Company  has  budgeted  approximately  $700  million  for  domestic
exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2005.

     Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses
eight counties in West Texas. The field is  approximately  150 miles long and 75
miles wide at its widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas  Intermediate
Sweet,  and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of
1,400 Btu.  The oil and gas is produced  primarily  from three  formations,  the
upper and lower  Spraberry  and the Dean,  at depths  ranging from 6,700 feet to
9,200 feet.  Recently,  the Company has been adding the  Wolfcamp  formation  at
depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet to selected wells with  successful
results.  The center of the  Spraberry  field was unitized in the late 1950s and
early 1960s by the major oil companies;  however, until the late 1980s there was
very limited  development  activity in the field.  The Company believes the area
offers  excellent  opportunities  to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the
numerous  undeveloped infill drilling locations,  many of which are reflected in
the Company's proved undeveloped  reserves,  and the ability to reduce operating
expenses through economies of scale.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2004,  the Company placed 104 Spraberry
wells on  production  and had 16 wells in progress as of December 31, 2004.  The
Company  plans to drill  approximately  150  development  wells in the Spraberry
field during 2005.

     Hugoton field.  The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest
producing gas fields in the continental  United States. The gas is produced from
the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging  from 2,700 feet to
3,000 feet. The Company's gas in the Hugoton field has an average energy content
of 1,025 Btu. The  Company's  Hugoton  properties  are located on  approximately
257,000  gross acres  (237,000  net acres),  covering  approximately  400 square
miles.  The Company has working  interests in  approximately  1,200 wells in the
Hugoton field,  about 1,000 of which it operates,  and partial royalty interests
in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns  substantially all of the gathering
and  processing  facilities,  primarily  the  Satanta  plant,  that  service its
production from the Hugoton field.  Such ownership allows the Company to control
the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.

     The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately
90.5  MMcf of wet gas per day  (i.e.,  gas  production  at the  wellhead  before
processing  or field  fuel use and before  reduction  for  royalties),  although
actual  production in the Hugoton  field is limited by  allowables  set by state
regulators.  The  Company  estimates  that it and other major  producers  in the
Hugoton field  produced at or near capacity  during the year ended  December 31,
2004. During 2004, the Company placed 17 development wells on production and had
one well in  progress  as of  December  31,  2004.  The plans  for 2005  include
drilling  approximately  18  development  wells and one potential new horizontal
well.

     The Company is continuing to evaluate the  feasibility  of infill  drilling
into the Council  Grove  Formation and may submit an  application  to the Kansas
Corporation  Commission  to allow  infill  drilling.  Such infill  drilling  may
increase  production from the Company's Hugoton  properties.  However,  until an
application has been submitted and approved, the Company will not reflect any of
the infill drilling  locations as proved undeveloped  reserves.  There can be no
assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of
such approval if granted.

     West  Panhandle  field.  The West  Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet.  The  Company's  gas in the West  Panhandle  field has an  average  energy
content of 1,300 Btu and is produced from  approximately  600 wells on more than
250,000 gross acres  covering over 375 square  miles.  The Company  controls 100
percent of the wells, production equipment,  gathering system and gas processing
plant for the field.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2004, the Company placed 78 development
wells on production and drilled three  development wells and two extension wells
which  were  determined  to be  unsuccessful.  The West  Panhandle  field had 11
development  wells in progress as of December  31,  2004.  The Company  plans to
drill approximately 90 wells in the West Panhandle field during 2005.




                                       16

<PAGE>



     Rocky Mountain  area.  The Company is one of the leading U.S.  producers of
coal bed  methane  ("CBM")  with the  Raton,  Piceance  and Uinta  Basin  assets
acquired from Evergreen which are situated in Colorado and Utah. Exploration for
CBM in the Raton  Basin began in the late 1970s and  continued  through the late
1980s,  with several  companies  drilling and testing more than 100 wells during
this  period.  The absence of a pipeline to  transport  gas from the Raton Basin
prevented full scale  development  until January 1995, when Colorado  Interstate
Gas Company  completed the construction of the Picketwire  lateral.  The Company
owns  approximately  385,000  gross  acres in the center of the Raton Basin with
current  production  from coal seams of the  Vermejo and Raton  formations.  The
Company  also owns  approximately  171,000  acres  covering  highly  prospective
regions of the Piceance and Uinta Basins.  Currently,  production is established
from  various  tight  sandstone,  coal and shale  formations.  The  Company  has
approximately  1,300 wells in these fields with an average daily gross  measured
production of 191 MMcf.  In the fourth  quarter of 2004,  the Company  placed 49
development  wells on production  and drilled two  successful  extension  wells.
Plans for 2005 include the drilling of approximately  300 development  wells and
20 extension wells to establish additional prospective areas and reserves.

     Gulf of Mexico  area.  In the Gulf of  Mexico,  the  Company  is focused on
reserve  and  production  growth  through a  portfolio  of shelf  and  deepwater
development projects,  high-impact,  higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling,
shelf  exploration  drilling  and  exploitation  opportunities  inherent  in the
properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf.

     In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has three major projects,  all
of which were producing or capable of producing at December 31, 2004:

       o      Canyon Express - The Canyon Express project is a joint development
              of three deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas  discoveries,  including the
              Company's  TotalFinaElf-operated  Aconcagua and  Marathon-operated
              Camden Hills fields, where the Company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3
              percent working interests, respectively.  The Company participated
              in the  discovery  of the  Aconcagua  gas field in 1999 during the
              early stages of building its  exploration program  and later added
              Camden Hills  to its  portfolio to  enhance its  ownership  in the
              project.  The Canyon  Express project was approved for development
              in June 2000 and  reached first production in September 2002.  The
              Canyon  Express  gathering  system  is the first  in the  area and
              provides the  Company and its  partners  with  the opportunity  to
              collect gathering and handling revenues from the use of the system
              by any future discoveries  in the area.  The Company  has plans to
              drill and  complete  an additional  development well  at Aconcagua
              during 2005.

       o      Falcon Corridor - The Falcon  Corridor  project  started  with the
              Company's Falcon field discovery during 2001, followed by the 2003
              Harrier, Raptor and  Tomahawk discoveries.  The Company owned a 45
              percent  working  interest  in the initial  Falcon  discovery  and
              surrounding  areas.   During  2002,   the  Company  purchased   an
              additional 30 percent working  interest in the project  and became
              the operator.  During 2003,  the Company acquired the remaining 25
              percent  working  interest  in the  project and  established first
              Falcon production during March 2003.

              In the first  quarter  of 2003,  the Company  drilled its  Harrier
              discovery,  which was completed as  a one-well  subsea tie-back to
              the  Falcon field  facilities and placed on  production in January
              2004.  In addition,  during the third quarter of 2003, the Company
              successfully drilled the Tomahawk and Raptor prospects, which were
              also developed as single-well subsea tie-backs to the Falcon field
              facilities and placed on production in  June 2004.  To accommodate
              the incremental production from Harrier,  Tomahawk and Raptor,  as
              well as  potential throughput  associated with  additional planned
              exploration, an additional parallel pipeline connecting the Falcon
              field to the Falcon Nest platform on the  Gulf of Mexico shelf was
              added, doubling its capacity. In early September 2004, the Company
              shut in  production  from the  Harrier field  as a result of early
              water encroachment. The Company initiated a sidetrack well in late
              September to access an adjacent fault block in the field which was
              successful,  encountering  over  400 feet of gas-bearing sand.  In
              order to capture the maximum reserves from the Raptor and Tomahawk
              fields, the Company delayed production from the  Harrier sidetrack
              until the Tomahawk field was fully depleted in December 2004. Once
              the Harrier sidetrack was placed on  production,  the Falcon field
              production rate was  reduced to  continue to allow Raptor to fully
              deplete.  Raptor is anticipated  to be  depleted  during the first
              half  of  2005,  at  which  time  production  from Falcon  will be
              increased. The Company operates all of the producing fields in the



                                       17

<PAGE>



              Falcon Corridor.  Sidetrack operations are being evaluated for the
              Raptor  field in 2005  to further  increase  reserve recovery.  In
              addition, the Company plans to  drill one  or two  Falcon Corridor
              exploration prospects during the first half of 2005.

       o      Devils Tower Area - The Dominion-operated Devils Tower development
              project was sanctioned in 2001  as a spar development project with
              the owners leasing a  spar from a third  party for the life of the
              field.  The spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and up to four
              subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60  MBbls of oil
              per day and 60 MMcf of gas per day.  Three Devils Tower wells were
              completed and placed on production prior to  being shut-in  during
              mid-September  due  to  Hurricane  Ivan.   The  Devils  Tower spar
              sustained significant damage during Hurricane Ivan, and production
              from the three wells did  not resume  until late October  2004.  A
              fourth well began producing at the end of November.  The damage to
              the  platform  rig  sustained   during   Hurricane  Ivan   delayed
              completion  activities  related  to   the  four  additional  wells
              previously drilled  to develop the field.  Rig  repairs  took  120
              days, and completion activities for  continued  field  development
              began   late   in  January   2005.   Pioneer  maintains   business
              interruption insurance and has filed a claim related to four wells
              that were  expected to be  completed  but were  delayed due to the
              effects of the  hurricane.  In the  fourth  quarter  of 2004,  the
              Company recorded  approximately $7.5 million of estimated business
              interruption  recovery  related to  its estimated  2004 production
              loss and should have  additional insurance  recoveries  associated
              with  2005 operational impact  from Hurricane Ivan.  In  addition,
              three subsea tie-back wells in the Goldfinger and Triton satellite
              discoveries in the Devils  Tower area  are expected to be  jointly
              tied back to the  Devils Tower spar with first production expected
              in late 2005.  Production is  expected to  continue to increase as
              additional wells are individually completed from the spar over the
              next six months.  The Company holds a 25 percent  working interest
              in each of the above projects.

     In addition to the development  and  exploration  projects in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico  described  above,  the  Company  participated  in three  subsalt
deepwater  prospects  during  the  first  half of 2004,  of  which  one well was
successful and two were noncommercial. A sidetrack well in the Dominion-operated
Thunder Hawk discovery at Mississippi  Canyon Block 734 encountered in excess of
300 feet of net oil pay in two high-quality  reservoir zones. Murphy Exploration
and  Production  Company  is now the  operator  and has  commenced  drilling  an
additional well to further  delineate the field. The Company owns a 12.5 percent
working  interest in the  discovery.  The Company also  anticipates  drilling an
appraisal well during 2005 on its 2002 Ozona Deep discovery.

     During January 2003, the Company  announced a joint  exploration  agreement
with Woodside Energy (USA), Inc.  ("Woodside"),  a subsidiary of Woodside Energy
Ltd. of Australia,  for a two-year drilling program over the shallow-water Texas
shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement,  Woodside acquired a 50
percent  working  interest in 47  offshore  exploration  blocks  operated by the
Company.  The  agreement  covers eight  prospects and 19 leads and included five
exploratory wells originally  scheduled to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004.
Most of the wells to be  drilled  under the  agreement  target  gas plays  below
15,000 feet. The first three wells under this joint agreement were unsuccessful.
The fourth well,  Midway,  encountered 30 feet of net gas pay and is expected to
be  tied  back  to  an  existing   production  platform  with  first  production
anticipated  during the second  quarter of 2005.  Three other  intervals with an
additional 60 feet of gas bearing sands were also  encountered  and will require
additional analysis to determine future commercial potential.  The Company has a
37.5 percent  working  interest in this well. The fifth well that was originally
scheduled to be drilled in 2003 and the three wells  originally  scheduled to be
drilled in 2004 under the agreement,  which has been extended for one additional
year,  were  mutually  agreed to be deferred  until more  technical  work can be
performed on the  prospects  by both  companies.  Additionally,  the Company and
Woodside are evaluating  shallower gas prospects on the Gulf of Mexico shelf for
possible inclusion in the 2005 drilling program.

     Onshore Gulf Coast area.  The Company has focused its  drilling  efforts in
this area on the Pawnee  field in the  Edwards  Reef trend in South  Texas.  The
Company  placed 10  development  wells and two extension  wells on production at
Pawnee  during  2004 and had two  development  wells and one  extension  well in
progress at year end. The Company plans to drill  approximately 12 wells in this
area during 2005.

     Alaska area.  The Company  spent $34.7 million of  acquisition  and seismic
capital during 2004 to add to its leasehold  position and expand its North Slope
seismic data coverage. In June 2004, Pioneer announced that it agreed to a joint
exploration program in the National Petroleum  Reserve-Alaska  ("NPR-A") located
on the North Slope with  ConocoPhillips and Anadarko Petroleum  Corporation.  At
the federal lease  sale held in June 2004, P ioneer was the high co-bidder on 63



                                       18

<PAGE>



tracts  covering  approximately  717,000 acres in the NPR-A  Northwest  Planning
Area.  Pioneer will participate with a 20 percent to 30 percent working interest
in the acreage  operated by  ConocoPhillips.  Pioneer also acquired a 20 percent
interest in 167,000 total acres in the adjacent  NPR-A  Northeast  Planning Area
and in federal offshore blocks, including seismic and geologic data. In December
2004, Pioneer signed an exploration  agreement with  ConocoPhillips and Anadarko
acquiring a 20 percent  interest in approximately  452,000  additional acres and
gaining the rights to extensive seismic and geologic data in the NPR-A Northeast
Planning  Area.  Pioneer  expects to  participate  in a  multi-year  exploration
program within NPR-A and anticipates that two exploration  wells will be drilled
during the first half of 2005.

     During the first quarter of 2005,  Pioneer will also  participate with a 40
percent  working  interest in an  exploration  well to evaluate  the  Kerr-McGee
Corporation - Tuvaaq prospect.  In addition,  Pioneer holds a 50 percent working
interest in a 130,000-acre  position  adjacent to and south of the giant Prudhoe
Bay and Kuparuk Units and has a new 3-D seismic  survey  underway for completion
during the first quarter of 2005.

     During  2002,  the  Company  acquired a 70  percent  working  interest  and
operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North Slope.  Associated therewith,
the  Company  drilled  three  exploratory  wells  during 2003 to test a possible
extension of the  productive  sands in the Kuparuk  River field into the shallow
waters  offshore.  Although  all three of the wells found the sands  filled with
oil,  they were too thin to be considered  commercial  on a  stand-alone  basis.
However, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing  Jurassic-aged
sands,  and the first well flowed at a rate of  approximately  1,300 barrels per
day. In January  2004,  the Company  farmed-into  a large  acreage  block to the
southwest of the Company's  discovery.  In the fourth  quarter of 2004,  Pioneer
completed  an  extensive  technical  and  economic  evaluation  of the  resource
potential  within  this area.  As a result of this  evaluation,  the  Company is
performing front-end engineering and permitting activities to further define the
scope of the project.  If the  additional  work confirms  favorable  development
economics,  Pioneer will seek to obtain regulatory approval to develop the field
in 2006 targeting first oil in 2008.

     International.  The Company's  international  operations are located in the
Neuquen and Austral  Basins areas of  Argentina,  the  Chinchaga,  Martin Creek,
Lookout  Butte and Carbon areas of Canada,  the Sable oil field  offshore  South
Africa and in southern Tunisia.  Additionally, the Company has other development
and  exploration  activities in the shallow waters offshore South Africa and oil
development  and  exploration  activities  in Tunisia.  As of December 31, 2004,
approximately  12 percent,  two percent and one percent of the Company's  proved
reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and Africa, respectively.

     Argentina.  The  Company's  Argentine  production  during  the  year  ended
December 31, 2004 averaged 30.4 MBOE per day, or approximately 17 percent of the
Company's equivalent production.  The Company's operated production in Argentina
is  concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest
of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced
primarily  from the Al Norte de la Dorsal,  the Al Sur de la Dorsal,  the Dadin,
the  Loma  Negra - Ni,  the Dos  Hermanas,  the  Anticlinal  Campamento  and the
Estacion  Fernandez  Oro  blocks,  each of which the  Company  has a 100 percent
working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the
Company's Loma Negra gas processing  plant.  The Company also operates and has a
50 percent  working  interest in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra
del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately
1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.

     Most of the  Company's  non-operated  production in Argentina is located in
Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced  from six separate  fields
in which the Company has a 35 percent working  interest.  The Company also has a
14.4 percent working  interest in the Confluencia  field which is located in the
Neuquen Basin.

     During the year ended  December  31,  2004,  the  Company  expended  $102.5
million on Argentine development and exploration activities. The Company drilled
44 development wells and 31 extension/exploratory wells, of which 43 development
wells and 21  extension/exploratory  wells were  successful.  During  2004,  the
Company shot seismic covering  approximately 330,000 acres. The Company plans to
be more active in Argentina  in 2005 with $133 million  budgeted for oil and gas
development and exploration activities.

     Canada. The Company's  Canadian producing  properties are located primarily
in  Alberta  and  British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production  during the year ended
December 31, 2004  averaged 8.0 MBOE per day, or  approximately  four percent of
the  Company's  equivalent  production.  The  Company  continues  to  focus  its
traditional conventional  development, exploration and acquisition activities in



                                       19

<PAGE>



the core  areas  of  northeast  British  Columbia  and  southern  Alberta  while
expanding  these  activities  to include a CBM focus in  southern  Alberta.  The
Canadian assets are geographically  concentrated,  predominately shallow gas and
primarily  operated by the Company in the  following  areas:  Chinchaga,  Martin
Creek, Lookout Butte and Carbon.

     Production  from  the  Chinchaga  area of  northeast  British  Columbia  is
relatively dry gas from  formation  depths  averaging  3,400 feet. In the Martin
Creek area of British Columbia the production is relatively dry gas from various
reservoirs ranging from 3,700 to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest
Alberta  produces  gas and  condensate  from  the  Mississippian  Turner  Valley
formation at approximately 12,000 feet. The Carbon area in south central Alberta
produces  gas,  CBM,  condensate  and  minor  oil from  Cretaceous  to  Devonian
formations at depths ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet.

     During the year ended  December  31,  2004,  the  Company  expended  $120.6
million  (approximately  $56.4 million  associated with the Evergreen merger) on
Canadian  exploration,  development  and  acquisition  activities.  The  Company
drilled three development wells and 51 exploratory/extension wells, primarily in
the Chinchaga,  Martin Creek and Carbon areas,  of which all three  developments
wells and 27 exploratory/extension  wells were successful. The majority of these
wells were  drilled in the  Chinchaga  and Martin  Creek areas  during the first
quarter  of 2004 as these  areas are only  accessible  for  drilling  during the
winter  months.  The remainder of these wells were drilled during the summer and
fall in the Carbon area that is accessible for  operations  throughout the year.
The  Company  plans to  spend  approximately  $60  million  on oil,  gas and CBM
development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2005.

     The Company  previously  announced  its  intention  to divest of its Martin
Creek and Lookout Butte assets in 2005.  The  expectation is that sales proceeds
will exceed $100 million based on today's commodity price environment,  however,
no assurance  can be given that  purchasers  will bid for these assets at prices
that are acceptable to the Company.

     Africa.  In Africa,  the Company has entered into agreements to explore for
oil and gas in South Africa,  Equatorial Guinea,  Gabon and Tunisia. The amended
South African  agreements cover over five million acres along the southern coast
of South  Africa,  generally  in water  depths  less  than 650  feet.  The Gabon
agreement covers 313,937 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths
less  than 100  feet.  The  Tunisian  agreements  can be  separated  into  three
categories:  (i) three  permits  covering  2.9  million  acres which the Company
operates with an average 55 percent working interest, (ii) the Anadarko-operated
Anaguid and Jenein Nord  permits  covering  over 1.5 million  acres in which the
Company  has a 45  percent  working  interest  and (iii) the  ENI-operated  Adam
Concession and Borj El Khadra permit  covering  212,420 acres and 969,755 acres,
respectively,  in which the  Company  has a 28 percent  and 40  percent  working
interest,  respectively.  All permits are onshore southern  Tunisia.  During the
year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended $74.9 million of acquisition,
development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon,
Equatorial Guinea, Tunisia and other prospective areas.

     South Africa. The Company spent $9.5 million of capital associated with its
Petro SA-operated Sable oil field. The Sable oil field began producing in August
2003. The Company has a 40 percent working interest in the Sable field. In 2005,
the Company  currently plans to spend  approximately  $1 million in South Africa
for production enhancement opportunities at Sable.

     In 2005, the Company expects its South African gas project to be sanctioned
by all parties. If approved, this project will allow the Company to sell its gas
from the Sable field and provide  commercialization  opportunities  for previous
gas discoveries.

     Equatorial  Guinea.  The Company  spent $13.0  million of  acquisition  and
drilling capital during 2004 to acquire a 50 percent working interest in 244,881
acres of Block H offshore  Equatorial  Guinea.  The Bravo 1 well was  drilled in
June 2004 and  determined  to be  noncommercial.  The Company has several  other
prospects  on the block that are being  evaluated  for future  drilling,  one of
which is expected to be drilled during 2005.

     Gabon. The Company spent $20.7 million of capital during 2004 to drill five
exploration  wells,  one of which  was  initially  evaluated  as  successful  in
extending the planned  development  area to the south.  The remaining four wells
were unsuccessful.  Despite the successful  extension well, in October 2004, the
Company  canceled  the  development  of the  Olowi  field  due to a  substantial
increase  in  projected  development  costs  which  resulted  in the project not




                                       20

<PAGE>



offering  competitive  returns. The Company's current Gabonese permit expires in
April 2005.  The Company has  verbally  requested  an extension to the permit to
allow more time for the  Company to  determine  the best  manner to exit  Gabon,
however, no assurance can be given that such extension will be granted. In 2004,
the Company recognized an impairment charge of approximately $39.7 million.

     Tunisia.  The Company  spent $17.0  million of  acquisition,  drilling  and
seismic  capital  during the year ended December 31, 2004 primarily to drill one
successful  development well in its Adam oil field,  one successful  development
well in its Hawa oil field and one successful  exploratory well in its Dalia oil
field,  all within the ENI-operated  Adam  Concession.  Production from the Adam
Concession  began  in May  2003.  The  capital  budget  for  Tunisia  in 2005 of
approximately  $24 million  includes an exploration well in the Adam concession,
one exploration well on the  Company-operated El Hamra  permit and two appraisal
wells on the Anaguid permit.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

     The following  tables set forth  selected oil and gas  information  for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented  below  should  not be  interpreted  as being
indicative of future results.

     Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production,
price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:




                                       21

<PAGE>


                         PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  2004                                        2003                              2002
                 ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------
                 United                                 United                                    United
                 States Argentina Canada Africa  Total  States  Argentina Canada  Africa  Total   States  Argentina Canada   Total
                 ------ --------- ------ ------ ------- ------- --------- ------- ------ -------- ------- --------- ------- --------
<S>              <C>    <C>       <C>    <C>    <C>     <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>    <C>      <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>
Production
information:
 Annual sales
 volumes:
  Oil (MBbls)...  9,750    3,123      50  4,274  17,197   8,952    3,171      40     723   12,886   8,555    2,914       45   11,514
  NGLs (MBbls)..  7,224      566     336    -     8,126   7,423      481     331     -      8,235   7,487      254      345    8,086
  Gas (MMcf)....190,994   44,525  15,323    -   250,842 154,400   34,357  15,209     -    203,966  77,199   28,550   17,653  123,402
  Total (MBOE).. 48,806   11,110   2,939  4,274  67,129  42,108    9,378   2,906     723   55,115  28,908    7,926    3,333   40,167
Average daily
sales volumes:
 Oil (Bbls).... 26,637    8,534      137 11,676  46,984  24,525    8,687     111   1,981   35,304  23,437    7,984      124   31,545
 NGLs (Bbls)... 19,738    1,546      917    -    22,201  20,338    1,318     906     -     22,562  20,512      696      946   22,154
 Gas (Mcf).....521,839  121,654   41,867    -   685,360 423,013   94,128  41,669     -    558,810 211,502   78,220   48,365  338,087
 Total (BOE)...133,349   30,356    8,031 11,676 183,412 115,364   25,694   7,962   1,981  151,001  79,201   21,716    9,131  110,048
Average prices,
including hedge
results:
 Oil (per Bbl).$ 29.41  $ 28.06  $ 44.83 $38.12 $ 31.38 $ 25.25  $ 25.62  $29.10  $29.52  $ 25.59  $23.66  $ 20.63   $22.26 $  22.89
 NGLs (per
  Bbl).........$ 25.07  $ 29.91  $ 30.87 $  -   $ 25.65 $ 19.04  $ 22.85  $24.80  $  -    $ 19.50  $13.77  $ 14.56   $16.77 $  13.92
 Gas (per Mcf).$  5.15  $   .66  $  4.64 $  -   $  4.33 $  4.47  $   .56  $ 4.93  $  -    $  3.84  $ 3.16  $   .48   $ 3.41 $   2.58
 Revenue (per
  BOE).........$ 29.75  $ 12.07  $ 28.49 $38.12 $ 27.30 $ 25.10  $ 11.87  $29.05  $29.52  $ 23.11  $19.01  $  9.79   $20.12 $  17.29
Average prices,
excluding hedge
results:
 Oil (per Bbl).$ 39.59  $ 29.82  $ 44.83 $38.71 $ 37.61 $ 29.58  $ 26.31  $29.10  $30.07  $ 28.80  $23.85  $ 20.33   $22.26 $  22.95
 NGLs (per
  Bbl).........$ 25.07  $ 29.91  $ 30.87 $  -   $ 25.65 $ 19.04  $ 22.85  $24.80  $  -    $ 19.50  $13.77  $ 14.56   $16.77 $  13.92
 Gas (per Mcf).$  5.72  $   .66  $  5.75 $  -   $  4.83 $  4.92  $   .56  $ 5.30  $  -    $  4.25  $ 3.01  $   .48   $ 3.32 $   2.52
 Revenue (per
    BOE).......$ 34.01  $ 12.56  $ 31.89 $38.71 $ 30.77 $ 27.69  $ 12.10  $30.98  $30.07  $ 25.24  $18.66  $  9.68   $19.63 $  16.97
 Average costs
  (per BOE):
   Production costs:
    Lease
     operating.$  3.45  $  2.75  $  9.69 $ 7.37 $  3.86 $  3.20  $  2.57  $ 9.49  $ 3.87  $  3.42  $ 3.42  $  1.61   $ 7.50 $   3.40
   Taxes:
    Ad valorem.    .58      -        -      -       .42     .53      -       -       -        .41     .78      -        -        .56
    Production.    .83      .23      -      -       .64     .79      .20     -       .12      .64     .74      .13      -        .56
  Workover.....    .25      .01      .95    -       .23     .16      .01     .43     -        .15     .29      .01      .59      .26
                ------   ------   ------  -----  ------  ------    -----   -----   -----   ------   -----   ------    -----   ------
     Total.....$  5.11  $  2.99  $ 10.64 $ 7.37 $  5.15 $  4.68  $  2.78  $ 9.92  $ 3.99  $  4.62  $ 5.23  $  1.75   $ 8.09 $   4.78
                ======   ======   ======  =====  ======  ======   ======   =====   =====   ======   =====   ======    =====  =======
 Depletion
 expense.......$  8.61  $  5.56  $ 10.93 $11.19 $  8.37 $  7.08  $  4.96  $ 9.98  $10.69  $  6.92  $ 4.85  $  5.00   $ 8.36 $   5.17
                ======   ======   ======  =====  ======  ======   ======   =====   =====   ======   =====   ======    =====  =======
<FN>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
o    These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
o    During 2004, the Company changed its treatment of field fuel,  which is gas
     consumed  to operate  field  equipment,  to exclude the field fuel gas from
     sales volumes,  oil and gas revenues and production  costs. In prior years,
     the field fuel gas was included in sales volumes,  oil and gas revenues and
     production  costs.  The prior period  amounts have been adjusted to reflect
     the Company's current treatment of field fuel.  Accordingly,  the gas sales
     volumes above  represent  gas  available  for sale.  These amounts will not
     agree to  the reserve  volume tables  in the  "Unaudited Supplemental Data"
     section  included in  "Item 8.  Financial  Statements and Supplemenal Data"
     because  field  fuel  volumes are  included in  production  volumes  in the
     reserve volume  tables.   See  Note B of  Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data"
     for additional discussion.
o    During   2004,   the  Company   changed  its   treatment  of  Canadian  gas
     transportation  costs to include  these costs as a component of oil and gas
     production costs. In prior years,  transportation  costs were recorded as a
     reduction  to oil and gas  revenues.  The prior  period  amounts  have been
     adjusted  to reflect  the  Company's  current  treatment  of  Canadian  gas
     transportation  costs.  See  Note  B of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data"
     for additional discussion.
o    The Company's lower average prices received for its Argentine  commodities,
     as compared  to the prices  received  in other  countries,  is due to price
     limitations  imposed by the Argentine  government in an effort to keep fuel
     and energy prices for Argentine consumers at pre-devaluation  levels. These
     limitations  have  kept  the  prices  received  for oil and  gas  sales  in
     Argentina well below world market levels. Beginning in 2004, the government
     has  allowed  gas prices to increase  gradually  over time,  but other than
     those specific  increases  already  established  for gas prices in 2005, no
     specific  predictions  can be made about the future of oil or gas prices in
     Argentina.  See "Qualitative  Disclosures" in "Item  7A.  Quantitative  and
     Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for  additional  discussion of
     Argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       22

<PAGE>




     Productive  wells.  The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002:

                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      Gross Productive Wells             Net Productive Wells
                                  -----------------------------      -----------------------------
                                     Oil       Gas       Total         Oil       Gas       Total
                                  -------    -------    -------      -------   -------    --------
<S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>        <C>
As of December 31, 2004:
   United States...............     3,999      3,990      7,989        3,288     3,563      6,851
   Argentina...................       744        226        970          607       168        775
   Canada......................        38        489        527           25       358        383
   Africa......................         9        -            9            3       -            3
                                  -------    -------    -------      -------   -------    -------
      Total....................     4,790      4,705      9,495        3,923     4,089      8,012
                                  =======    =======    =======      =======   =======    =======
As of December 31, 2003:
   United States...............     3,691      2,012      5,703        2,978     1,907      4,885
   Argentina...................       669        194        863          539       141        680
   Canada......................         4        268        272            4       210        214
   Africa......................         7        -            7            2       -            2
                                  -------    -------    -------      -------   -------    -------
      Total....................     4,371      2,474      6,845        3,523     2,258      5,781
                                  =======    =======    =======      =======   =======    =======
As of December 31, 2002:
   United States...............     3,448      1,952      5,400        2,745     1,855      4,600
   Argentina...................       694        208        902          534       142        676
   Canada......................         1        246        247            1       197        198
   Africa......................         5        -            5            2       -            2
                                  -------    -------    -------      -------   -------    -------
      Total....................     4,148      2,406      6,554        3,282     2,194      5,476
                                  =======    =======    =======      =======   =======    =======
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are counted as one well. If any well in which one of the multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion,  then the well is  classified as an oil
     well.  As of December 31, 2004,  the Company  owned  interests in 335 gross
     wells containing multiple completions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Leasehold  acreage.  The following table sets forth  information  about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2004:

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    Developed Acreage           Undeveloped Acreage
                                -------------------------     -------------------------    Royalty
                                Gross Acres    Net Acres      Gross Acres     Net Acres     Acreage
                                -----------    ----------     -----------    ----------    ---------
<S>                             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
  United States:
     Onshore................     1,340,476     1,148,765         458,955        349,065      286,048
     Offshore...............       114,573        53,078       2,122,351      1,130,895       10,500
                                ----------    ----------      ----------     ----------    ---------
                                 1,455,049     1,201,843       2,581,306      1,479,960      296,548
  Argentina.................       728,000       333,000       1,139,000      1,056,000          -
  Canada....................       280,000       198,000         504,000        371,000       30,000
  Africa....................       222,020        63,318      11,406,804      6,611,566          -
                                ----------    ----------      ----------     ----------    ---------
     Total..................     2,685,069     1,796,161      15,631,110      9,518,526      326,548
                                ==========    ==========      ==========     ==========    =========
</TABLE>



                                       23

<PAGE>



     The following  table sets forth the  expiration  dates of the leases on the
Company's gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Acres Expiring (a)
                                               ----------------------------
                                                   Gross           Net
                                               -----------     ------------
<S>    <C>                                       <C>             <C>
       2005 (b)............................      3,928,789       3,038,128
       2006................................      3,073,584       1,580,639
       2007................................      5,118,053       2,441,124
       2008................................        190,249         172,005
       2009................................        576,433         183,463
       Thereafter..........................      2,744,002       2,103,167
                                               -----------     -----------
          Total............................     15,631,110       9,518,526
                                               ===========     ===========
<FN>
- --------------
(a)  Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities.
(b)  Acres subject to  expiration  during 2005 include 1.8 million gross and net
     acres in South  Africa  block 14, 1.7  million  gross acres (.8 million net
     acres)  in  Tunisia,  314  thousand  gross  and net  acres in Gabon and 179
     thousand gross acres (131 thousand net acres) in North America. The Company
     may extend these leases prior to their  expiration  based upon 2005 planned
     activities  or for other  business  reasons.  However,  no assurance can be
     given  that such  lease  extensions  will be  granted.  In certain of these
     leases,  the extension is only subject to the Company's  election to extend
     and  the  fulfillment  of  certain  capital  expenditure  commitments.  See
     "Description of Properties"  above for information  regarding the Company's
     drilling operations.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and
net productive and dry hole wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003  and  2002.  This
information  should not be  considered  indicative  of future  performance,  nor
should it be  assumed  that  there was any  correlation  between  the  number of
productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves  generated  thereby or the
costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.

                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              Gross Wells                    Net Wells
                                      --------------------------     --------------------------
                                        Year Ended December 31,        Year Ended December 31,
                                      --------------------------     --------------------------
                                       2004      2003      2002       2004      2003      2002
                                      ------    ------    ------     -----     ------    ------
<S>                                   <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
United States:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................      268       244       148      243.1      210.5     83.0
    Exploratory...................        8         4         6        5.3        4.0      2.0
  Dry holes:
    Development...................        3         6         4        3.0        6.0      3.7
    Exploratory...................        6         6         3        3.0        3.6      2.1
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
                                        285       260       161      254.4      224.1     90.8
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
Argentina:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................       43        29        13       41.7       29.0     13.0
    Exploratory...................       21        21         9       21.0       21.0      9.0
  Dry holes:
    Development...................        1         2         1        1.0        2.0      1.0
    Exploratory...................       10         9         8        9.5        9.0      8.0
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
                                         75        61        31       73.2       61.0     31.0
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
Canada:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................        3         7        13        3.0        7.0     10.4
    Exploratory...................       27        16         9       24.5       14.9      9.0
  Dry holes:
    Development...................      -           7         4        -          6.5      4.0
    Exploratory...................       24        26         3       23.3       21.1      3.0
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
                                         54        56        29       50.8       49.5     26.4
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
Africa:
  Productive wells:
    Development...................        2         1         4         .6         .3      1.6
    Exploratory...................        2         1         4        1.4         .4      3.4
  Dry holes:
    Development...................      -         -         -          -          -        -
    Exploratory...................        5         4       -          4.4        3.5      -
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
                                          9         6         8        6.4        4.2      5.0
                                      -----     -----     -----      -----     ------   ------
   Total..........................      423       383       229      384.8      338.8    153.2
                                      =====     =====     =====      =====     ======   ======
Success ratio (a).................      88%       84%       90%        89%        85%      86%
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Represents  the ratio of those wells that were  successfully  completed  as
     producing  wells or wells  capable of producing to total wells  drilled and
     evaluated.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       24

<PAGE>




     The following table sets forth  information  about the Company's wells upon
which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                                 -----------    ---------
<S>                                              <C>            <C>
United States:
  Development...................................       32           28.7
  Exploratory...................................        9            4.4
                                                    -----         ------
                                                       41           33.1
                                                    -----         ------
Argentina:
  Development...................................        6            5.4
  Exploratory...................................        8            7.4
                                                    -----         ------
                                                       14           12.8
                                                    -----         ------
Canada:
  Development...................................        2            2.0
  Exploratory...................................       21           17.0
                                                    -----         ------
                                                       23           19.0
                                                    -----         ------
Africa:
  Development...................................      -              -
  Exploratory...................................        2             .8
                                                    -----         ------
                                                        2             .8
                                                    -----         ------
    Total.......................................       80           65.7
                                                    =====         ======
</TABLE>

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The  Company is party to various  legal  proceedings,  which are  described
under "Legal  actions" in Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  Except for the
specific legal actions  described in Note J of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data", the
Company  believes  that the probable  damages from such other legal actions will
not be in excess of 10 percent of the Company's current assets.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of 2004.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

     The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and  traded on the NYSE  under the
symbol "PXD".  The following table sets forth,  for the periods  indicated,  the
high and low sales prices for the  Company's  common  stock,  as reported in the
NYSE composite transactions. The Company's board of directors declared dividends
to the holders of the  Company's  common stock of $.20 per share during the year
ended December 31, 2004. On February 17, 2005, the Company's  board of directors
declared a cash dividend on common stock of $.10 per share, payable on April 15,
2005 to  stockholders  of record  on March  31,  2005.  The  Company's  board of
directors did not declare dividends to the holders of the Company's common stock
during the year ended December 31, 2003.




                                       25

<PAGE>




     The  following  table  sets  forth  quarterly  high and low  prices  of the
Company's  common  stock and  dividends  declared  per share for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Dividends
                                                                          Declared
                                                      High       Low      Per Share
                                                    -------    -------    ---------
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
Year ended December 31, 2004:
   Fourth quarter..............................     $ 36.85    $ 30.80      $  -
   Third quarter...............................     $ 37.50    $ 31.03      $  .10
   Second quarter..............................     $ 35.18    $ 29.27      $  -
   First quarter...............................     $ 34.68    $ 29.60      $  .10

Year ended December 31, 2003:
   Fourth quarter..............................     $ 32.90    $ 25.00      $  -
   Third quarter...............................     $ 26.52    $ 22.76      $  -
   Second quarter..............................     $ 28.44    $ 22.85      $  -
   First quarter...............................     $ 27.44    $ 23.27      $  -
</TABLE>

     On February 18, 2005, the last reported sales price of the Company's common
stock, as reported in the NYSE composite transactions, was $40.11 per share.

     As  of  February  18,  2005,  the  Company's   common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 26,600 registered holders of record.

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

     The following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                  (b)
                                                                                           Number of securities
                                                    (a)                                   remaining available
                                                 Number of                                for future issuance
                                             securities to be                                 under equity
                                                issued upon         Weighted average        compensation plans
                                                exercise of         exercise price of    (excluding securities
                                            outstanding options    outstanding options  reflected in first column)
                                            -------------------    -------------------  -------------------------
<S>                                         <C>                    <C>                  <C>
Equity compensation plans approved by
  security holders (c):
    Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
      Long-Term Incentive Plan.............      3,514,559               $ 20.19               8,307,237
      Employee Stock Purchase Plan.........            -                 $   -                   557,335
    Predecessor plans......................      1,666,025               $ 15.26                     -
                                                 ---------                                    ----------
                                                 5,180,584                                     8,864,572
                                                 =========                                    ==========
<FN>
- ---------------

(a)  There are no  outstanding  warrants  or  equity  rights  awarded  under the
     Company's  equity   compensation  plans.  The  securities  do  not  include
     restricted stock awarded under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan.
(b)  The  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  provides  for the issuance of a
     maximum  number of shares of common  stock equal to 10 percent of the total
     number of shares of common  stock  equivalents  outstanding  less the total
     number of shares of common stock  subject to  outstanding  awards under any
     stock-based  plan for the directors,  officers or employees of the Company.
     The number of remaining  securities available for future issuance under the
     Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan is based on the original  authorized
     issuance of 750,000  shares less 192,665  cumulative  shares issued through
     December 31, 2004. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a
     description of each of the Company's equity compensation plans.
(c)  There are no equity  compensation  plans  that  have not been  approved  by
     security holders.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       26

<PAGE>



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

     The following  table  summarizes the Company's  purchases of treasury stock
during the three months ended December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Total Number of Shares
                                                                             (or Units) Purchased
                               Total Number of         Average Price          as Part of Publicly
                               Shares (or Units)       Paid per Share           Announced Plans
      Period                       Purchased              (or Unit)                or Programs
      ------                   -----------------       --------------       ----------------------

<S>                            <C>                     <C>                  <C>
October 2004................         300,000              $  33.173                   300,000
November 2004...............         556,500              $  33.030                   556,500
December 2004...............         798,600              $  34.331                   798,600
                                 -----------                                       ----------
        Total...............       1,655,100              $  33.684                 1,655,100
                                 ===========                                       ==========
</TABLE>

     During  December  2003,  the Company's  board of directors  approved a $200
million share  repurchase  program.  During January 2005, the Company's board of
directors  terminated the $200 million share  repurchase  program and approved a
new share repurchase  program  authorizing the purchase of up to $300 million of
the Company's common stock.






                                       27

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following  selected  consolidated  financial data as of and for each of
the five  years  ended  December  31,  2004 for the  Company  should  be read in
conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations"  and "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
                                                     2004        2003        2002        2001        2000
                                                   --------    --------    --------    --------    --------
                                                            (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Statements of Operations Data:
  Revenues and other income:
    Oil and gas (a)............................    $1,832.7    $1,273.9    $  694.4    $  831.7    $  822.9
    Interest and other.........................        14.1        12.3        11.2        21.8        25.8
    Gain on disposition of assets, net.........         -           1.3         4.4         7.7        34.2
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
                                                    1,846.8     1,287.5       710.0       861.2       882.9
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production (a).................       345.5       254.8       192.1       194.4       159.5
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization...       574.9       390.8       216.4       222.6       214.9
    Impairment of oil and gas properties (b)...        39.7         -           -           -           -
    Exploration and abandonments...............       181.7       132.8        85.9       127.9        87.5
    General and administrative.................        80.5        60.5        48.4        37.0        33.3
    Accretion of discount on asset retirement
      obligations (c)..........................         8.2         5.0         -           -           -
    Interest...................................       103.4        91.4        95.8       131.9       162.0
    Other (d)..................................        33.7        21.4        39.6        43.4        79.5
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
                                                    1,367.6       956.7       678.2       757.2       736.7
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
  Income before income taxes and cumulative
    effect of change in accounting principle...       479.2       330.8        31.8       104.0       146.2
  Income tax benefit (provision) (e)...........      (166.3)       64.4        (5.1)       (4.0)        6.0
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
  Income before cumulative effect of change
    in accounting principle....................       312.9       395.2        26.7       100.0       152.2
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle, net of tax (c)..................         -          15.4         -           -           -
                                                    -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
  Net income...................................    $  312.9    $  410.6    $   26.7    $  100.0    $  152.2
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
  Income before cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle per share:
      Basic....................................    $   2.50    $   3.37    $    .24    $   1.01    $   1.53
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
      Diluted..................................    $   2.46    $   3.33    $    .23    $   1.00    $   1.53
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
  Net income per share:
      Basic....................................    $   2.50    $   3.50    $    .24    $   1.01    $   1.53
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
      Diluted..................................    $   2.46    $   3.46    $    .23    $   1.00    $   1.53
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
  Weighted average shares outstanding:
    Basic......................................       125.2       117.2       112.5        98.5        99.4
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
    Diluted....................................       127.5       118.5       114.3        99.7        99.8
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
  Dividends declared per share.................    $    .20    $    -      $    -      $    -      $    -
                                                    =======     =======     =======     =======     =======
Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Total assets.................................    $6,647.2    $3,951.6    $3,455.1    $3,271.1    $2,954.4
  Long-term obligations and minority interests.    $3,271.0    $1,762.0    $1,805.6    $1,757.5    $1,833.0
  Total stockholders' equity...................    $2,831.8    $1,759.8    $1,374.9    $1,285.4    $  904.9
<FN>
- ---------------

(a)  Certain amounts for periods prior to January 1, 2004 have been reclassified
     to  conform  with the  current  year  presentation.  See Note B of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
     and Supplemental Data" for additional discussion.
(b)  During 2004, the Company recorded a $39.7 million impairment charge for its
     Gabonese  Olowi field as  development  of the discovery was canceled due to
     significant  increases in projected field development  costs. See Note T of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data".
(c)  Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for 2003 relates to the
     adoption  of SFAS No. 143 on January 1,  2003.  Associated  therewith,  the
     Company recorded  accretion of discount on asset retirement  obligations in
     accordance  with SFAS No.  143 during  2004 and 2003.  See Notes B and M of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data".
(d)  Other  expense for 2003,  2002,  2001 and 2000 include  losses on the early
     extinguishment  of debt of $1.5 million,  $22.3  million,  $3.8 million and
     $12.3  million,  respectively.  Other  expense  for 2001  and 2000  include
     noncash  mark-to-market charges for changes in the fair values of non-hedge
     financial instruments of $11.5 million and $58.5 million, respectively. See
     Note P of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(e)  Income tax benefit for 2003 includes a $197.7 million  adjustment to reduce
     United States deferred tax asset valuation allowances.  See Note Q of Notes
     to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data".
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       28

<PAGE>



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2004 Highlights and Events

     Pioneer's  financial and operating  performance for the year ended December
31, 2004 included the following highlights and events:

       o      Average daily sales volumes on a BOE basis increased 21 percent in
              2004  as compared  to 2003,  principally  due  to a  full  year of
              production  from the  Falcon and  Sable development projects,  new
              production being initiated from the Harrier,  Raptor and  Tomahawk
              fields in the Falcon area and at  Devils Tower  and fourth quarter
              production added from the Evergreen merger.
       o      Oil and gas  revenues increased 44 percent  in 2004 as a result of
              the increased  production volumes  and increases  in worldwide oil
              and gas prices.
       o      Income  before  income taxes  and cumulative  effect of  change in
              accounting  principle  increased  by 45  percent to $479.2 million
              from $330.8 million in 2003.
       o      Net cash provided  by operating activities increased by 45 percent
              to a record $1.1 billion as compared to $763.7 million in 2003.
       o      The Company's capital investment programs resulted in total proved
              reserves of 1.0 billion BOE at December 31, 2004.
       o      The declaration of $.20 per share of common dividends.
       o      A $39.7  million  impairment  charge  ($12.8  million  net  of tax
              benefits) as a  result  of the  decision to  cancel Gabonese Olowi
              field  development  plans.  See  Note T of  Notes to  Consolidated
              Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
              Supplementary  Data"  for  more  information  pertaining  to  this
              matter.
       o      Partial  loss of  third and  fourth  quarter  production at Devils
              Tower and  Canyon  Express  from Hurricane  Ivan  which  struck on
              September 15, 2004 and related damages.
       o      The 2004 repurchase of 2.8 million  shares of the Company's common
              stock for $92 million.

     During  2004,  the Company  also  announced  the  following  financial  and
operating achievements:

       o      Rating agencies  upgrade of the Company to investment grade status
              in response to improved  financial position  and earnings  trends,
              along with other factors specific to the Company.
       o      Merger  with  Evergreen.  See  Note C  of  Notes  to  Consolidated
              Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
              Supplementary Data" and  "Evergreen Merger"  below for information
              regarding this business combination.
       o      The exchange of portions  of the Company's  higher-yielding senior
              notes for 5.875% senior notes due 2016 (the "New Notes") and cash.
              See Note F of Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements included
              in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  and
              "Capital Commitments,  Capital Resources and Liquidity"  below for
              information  regarding this  $526.8 million debt exchange that was
              completed in July 2004.
       o      Completion of the first amendment  (the "First Amendment")  to the
              Company's $700 million,  five-year revolving credit agreement (the
              "Revolving  Credit  Agreement")   which  removed  Pioneer  Natural
              Resources  USA, Inc.,  a wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the Company
              ("Pioneer USA"), as a guarantor of the Revolving Credit  Agreement
              and had the effect of removing  Pioneer USA as a  guarantor of the
              Company's  senior  notes.  See Note F  of  Notes  to  Consolidated
              Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
              Supplementary Data" for information regarding the First Amendment.
       o      Completion of a  successful appraisal well in the Hawa area in the
              Adam production concession onshore southern Tunisia.
       o      First  production  from the  Company's  deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico
              Harrier field during January 2004,  the Devils Tower field  during
              May 2004 and the Raptor and Tomahawk fields during June 2004.
       o      The acquisition  of a  50 percent  interest  in  Block  H offshore
              Equatorial Guinea, West Africa.
       o      The announced  agreement to  participate  in a  joint  exploration
              program with ConocoPhillips and  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation in
              the National Petroleum Reserve on the North Slope of Alaska.


                                       29

<PAGE>



2004 Financial and Operating Performance

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  the  Company
recorded net income of $312.9 million,  $410.6 million and $26.7 million ($2.46,
$3.46 and $.23 per diluted share), respectively. Compared to 2003, the Company's
2004 total revenues and other income increased by $559.4 million, or 43 percent,
including a $558.8 million increase in oil and gas revenues. The increase in oil
and gas revenues was due to increases in production  volumes and increases of 23
percent,  32  percent  and 13  percent  in  average  oil,  NGL and  gas  prices,
respectively, including the effects of commodity price hedges.

     Compared to 2003,  the  Company's  total costs and  expenses  increased  by
$410.9  million,  or 43 percent,  during the year ended  December 31, 2004.  The
increase  in total  costs and  expenses  was  primarily  reflective  of a $184.0
million increase in depletion,  depreciation and amortization  ("DD&A") expense,
primarily driven by increases in depletion  associated with increased production
volumes  from  higher-cost-basis  deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico  and  South  Africa
properties,  a $90.8 million  increase in oil and gas  production  costs,  which
primarily  resulted from increases in production  volumes,  the strengthening of
both the Argentine peso and Canadian  dollar and commodity  prices that impacted
variable lease operating expenses and production taxes, a $48.9 million increase
in   exploration   and   abandonments   expense   primarily   due  to  increased
exploration/extension  drilling  in the Gulf of  Mexico,  Argentina,  Canada and
Gabon  and  a  $39.7  million   impairment  charge  on  the  Company's  Gabonese
properties.

     During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company's net cash provided by
operating  activities  increased to $1.1 billion,  as compared to $763.7 million
during 2003 and $332.2 million during 2002. The 45 percent  increase in net cash
provided by operating  activities  during 2004 was primarily due to increases in
production volumes and commodity prices, as discussed above.

     During the year ended  December 31,  2004,  successful  capital  investment
activities   increased  the  Company's  proved  reserves  to  1.0  billion  BOE,
reflecting  the  effects of the  Evergreen  merger,  strategic  acquisitions  of
property  interests in the Company's core operating areas and the Company's 2004
drilling  program.  Costs  incurred for the year ended December 31, 2004 totaled
$3.2  billion,   including   $2.6  billion  of  proved  and  unproved   property
acquisitions, $557.2 million of exploration and development drilling and seismic
expenditures and $15.1 million of asset retirement  obligations.  Costs incurred
for the year ended  December  31, 2004  include $2.5 billion of costs to acquire
Evergreen's oil and gas properties.

     See "Results of Operations" and "Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and
Liquidity",  below, for more in- depth  discussions of the Company's oil and gas
producing activities, including discussions pertaining to oil and gas production
volumes,  prices, hedging activities,  costs and expenses,  capital commitments,
capital resources and liquidity.

Evergreen Merger

     On September 28, 2004, Pioneer completed its merger with Evergreen. Pioneer
acquired  the  common  stock  of  Evergreen  for  a  total   purchase  price  of
approximately  $1.8  billion,  which was  comprised  of cash and Pioneer  common
stock. At the merger date,  Evergreen's proved reserves were approximately 262.2
MMBOE.  Evergreen  was a  publicly-  traded  independent  oil  and  gas  company
primarily engaged in the production, development, exploration and acquisition of
North American  unconventional gas. Evergreen was based in Denver,  Colorado and
was  one  of the  leading  developers  of CBM  reserves  in the  United  States.
Evergreen's  operations were principally focused on developing and expanding its
CBM gas field located in the Raton Basin in southern  Colorado.  Evergreen  also
had  operations in the Piceance  Basin in western  Colorado,  the Uinta Basin in
eastern Utah and the Western Canada  Sedimentary  Basin.  See Note C of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for more information regarding the Evergreen merger.

2005 Outlook and Activities

     Volumetric  production payments.  During January 2005, the Company sold two
percent of its total proved reserves, or 20.5 million BOE of proved reserves, by
means of two volumetric  production payments ("VPPs") for total proceeds of $593
million and the assumption of the Company's obligations under certain derivative
hedge  agreements.  Proceeds  from  the  VPPs  were  initially  used to pay down
indebtedness.


                                       30

<PAGE>



     The VPPs represent limited term overriding royalty interests in oil and gas
reserves which: (i) entitle the purchaser to receive  production  volumes over a
period of time from  specific  lease  interests;  (ii) are free and clear of all
associated  future  production  costs  and  capital   expenditures;   (iii)  are
nonrecourse to the Company (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the assets
acquired);  (iv) transfers  title to the purchaser and (v) allows the Company to
retain the assets after the VPP's volumetric obligations have been satisfied.

     The first VPP sells 58 Bcf of Hugoton  field gas  volumes  over an expected
five-year  term  beginning in February  2005 for $275  million of proceeds.  The
second VPP sells 10.8 MMBOE of  Spraberry  field oil  volumes  over an  expected
seven-year term beginning in January 2006 for $318 million of proceeds.

     A VPP is  considered  a sale of  proved  reserves  and the  related  future
production of those proved reserves. As a result the Company will (i) remove the
proved  reserves  associated  with the VPPs;  (ii) recognize the VPP proceeds as
deferred revenue which will be amortized on a unit-of-production basis to future
oil and gas revenues over the terms of the VPPs; (iii) retain responsibility for
100 percent of the  production  costs and capital costs related to VPP interests
and  (iv) no  longer  recognize  production  associated  with  the VPP  volumes,
resulting in higher future  revenue per BOE,  production  costs per BOE and DD&A
per BOE ratios.

     The Company  will  amortize to oil and gas  revenues  $62.9  million of net
deferred gas revenue during 2005  associated  with the Hugoton field VPP. During
2006,  the Company  will  amortize  $57.6  million of net  deferred  gas revenue
associated  with the Hugoton  field VPP and $53.7  million of net  deferred  oil
revenue associated with the Spraberry field VPP.

     Commodity prices. World oil prices increased during the year ended December
31, 2004 in  response to  political  unrest and supply  disruptions  in Iraq and
Venezuela as well as other supply and demand factors.  North American gas prices
also  increased  during 2004 in response to continued  strong  supply and demand
fundamentals.  The Company's  outlook for 2005 commodity  prices continues to be
cautiously  optimistic.  Significant  factors  that will impact  2005  commodity
prices include developments in Iraq and other Middle East countries,  the extent
to which members of the OPEC and other oil exporting  nations are able to manage
oil supply through export quotas and variations in key North American gas supply
and demand indicators.  Pioneer will continue to strategically hedge oil and gas
price risk to mitigate  the impact of price  volatility  on its oil, NGL and gas
revenues.

     See Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information
regarding the Company's commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2004. Also see
"Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About  Market  Risk" for
disclosures  about  the  Company's   commodity  related   derivative   financial
instruments.

     Capital  expenditures.  During 2005,  the Company's  budget for oil and gas
capital  activities is expected to range from $900 million to $950  million,  of
which approximately 75 percent has been budgeted for lower-risk  development and
extension   drilling  and  facility   costs  and  25  percent  for   exploration
expenditures.  The Company's 2005 capital budget is allocated  approximately  75
percent to the United  States,  15 percent to Argentina and five percent to each
of Africa and Canada. Pioneer expects to drill approximately 800 exploration and
development  wells during  2005.  During 2005 and 2006,  the Company  expects to
expend approximately $394 million and $348 million, respectively, of capital for
development  drilling  and  facility  costs  related to its  proved  undeveloped
reserves.

     Production  growth.  The Company  expects  that its annual  2005  worldwide
production  will range from 70 MMBOE to 74 MMBOE, or  approximately  192 MBOE to
203 MBOE per day. The forecasted  range includes a full year of production  from
the assets  acquired  in the  Evergreen  merger and has been  reduced by the VPP
volumes sold during January 2005. The Company  expects,  based on quoted futures
prices,  to generate cash flow  significantly  in excess of its capital  program
which will  further  enhance the  Company's  financial  flexibility  to fund the
development  of  future  exploration  successes,   core  area  acquisitions  and
additional development drilling.

     With several discoveries in various stages of commercialization, a pipeline
of   exploration   opportunities,   the  potential   for  continued   core  area
acquisitions,  continuing  strong commodity  prices and significant  excess cash
flow, Pioneer has targeted five-year average compounded annual production growth
of eight percent to nine percent or ten percent per share, giving  consideration
to contemplated share repurchases.


                                       31

<PAGE>



     Costs and  expenses.  The Company  expects that its costs and expenses that
are highly  correlated with  production  volumes,  such as production  costs and
depletion  expense,  will  increase  in  absolute  amounts  during 2005 and that
production  costs,  depreciation,  depletion and amortization  expense and other
costs and expenses  will  increase on a per BOE basis as a result of the sale of
proved  reserves  through  the VPPs.  Additionally,  the  Company  expects  that
depletion  expense  will  increase on a per BOE basis during 2005 as compared to
2004  due to  increased  production  from  the  Devils  Tower  oil  field in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the assets  acquired in the Evergreen  merger.  The
per BOE cost  basis of these  fields is higher  than that of  Pioneer's  average
producing  property in 2004. Ad valorem taxes are highly  correlated  with prior
year commodity  prices. As a consequence of increases in oil, NGL and gas prices
during 2004,  ad valorem taxes are expected to be higher in 2005, as compared to
2004.  The Company also  anticipates  an increase in general and  administrative
expenses  during 2005 due to additional  staffing  associated with the Evergreen
merger and anticipated  Company growth,  as well as the amortization of deferred
compensation associated with unvested restricted stock and stock options.

     Capital  allocation.  During  2004,  the  Company  improved  its  financial
position and achieved  investment grade standards.  The Company is now targeting
mid-investment  grade  ratings.  Towards  that end,  the Company  established  a
targeted  range for debt to book  capitalization  of less than 35 percent by the
end of 2005, as further discussed later. During 2004, the Company paid dividends
of $.20 per  common  share in two  semiannual  installments  of $.10 per  common
share, and the Company currently  expects to, as a minimum,  maintain this level
of dividends in 2005.

     During 2005 through  2007,  the Company  anticipates,  based upon  year-end
futures prices, that it will have significant excess cash flow after funding its
typical annual  capital  budgets,  planned  dividends and achieving its leverage
targets.  The Company  considers it a high  priority to utilize a portion of the
excess cash flow to fund the  development  of new  exploration  successes and to
selectively  acquire  additional assets in its core areas. The Company will also
use a portion of the excess  cash flow for share  repurchases,  pursuant  to the
recently approved $300 million stock repurchase program.

     First quarter 2005.  Based on current  estimates,  the Company expects that
first quarter 2005  production will average 175,000 to 190,000 BOE per day. This
range is lower than the fourth quarter average  reflecting the VPP volumes sold,
more days of downtime and a gradual ramp up of production for the Canyon Express
system which has been undergoing  repairs,  the timing of oil cargo shipments in
Tunisia  and South  Africa  which were high during the fourth  quarter,  and the
typical seasonal decline in gas demand during Argentina's summer season.

     First quarter production costs (including  production and ad valorem taxes)
are  expected  to average  $6.00 to $6.50 per BOE based on current  NYMEX  strip
prices for oil and gas. The increase  over the prior  quarter is a result of the
retention of operating  costs  related to the VPP volumes  sold,  an increase in
production  and ad valorem taxes and  additional  workovers  planned  during the
Canadian winter access season.  Production  costs are expected to decline in the
second  quarter of 2005 as lower-cost  volumes resume from the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico and workovers return to more normal levels.  Depreciation,  depletion and
amortization expense is expected to average $8.75 to $9.25 per BOE.

     Total exploration and abandonment  expense is expected to be $80 million to
$110 million.  Several  higher-risk  exploration  wells and significant  seismic
investments are planned during the first quarter,  serving to front-end load the
Company's 2005  exploration  program.  Specifically,  first quarter  exploration
activity is  expected  to include an  appraisal  well to the 2004  Thunder  Hawk
discovery and an exploration well on a Falcon Corridor satellite prospect in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In Alaska, as many as three wells are expected to test
new  exploration  targets and Pioneer plans to shoot seismic over newly acquired
acreage.  One well is planned  in West  Africa and  lower-risk  exploration  and
geologic  and  geophysical  work will also  continue  in  Argentina,  Canada and
Tunisia. General and administrative expense is expected to be $24 million to $26
million.  Interest  expense is expected to be $33  million to $36  million,  and
accretion  of  discount  on  asset  retirement  obligations  is  expected  to be
approximately $2 million to $3 million.

     The  Company's  effective  income  tax rate is  expected  to range  from 36
percent to 39 percent based on current capital  spending  plans,  including cash
income  taxes of $5  million  to $10  million  that are  principally  related to
Argentine and Tunisian income taxes and nominal  alternative  minimum tax in the
U.S. Other than in Argentina and Tunisia,  the Company continues to benefit from
the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes.



                                       32

<PAGE>



     Debt  reduction  target.  Although the Evergreen  merger has resulted in an
increase in the Company's ratio of debt to book capitalization,  the Company has
targeted a ratio of debt to book  capitalization  of less than 35 percent by the
end of 2005. To achieve this target, the Company plans to apply a portion of the
proceeds from the 2005 VPPs and the  divestiture of certain  Canadian assets for
expected proceeds of over $100 million to reduce debt. In addition,  the Company
expects cash flows to be  significantly  in excess of the 2005  capital  program
based on current commodity prices which can be used to further reduce debt.

Field Fuel Reporting

     During the fourth  quarter  of 2004,  the  Company  completed  a  voluntary
internal review of the various accounting treatments related to field fuel costs
used by major oil companies and other  independents in order to determine common
industry practice.  The review, in part, was undertaken in response to the large
volume of field fuel usage related to the assets acquired from Evergreen.  Field
fuel is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to
the gas being delivered to a sales point.

     Pioneer has  historically  recorded the value of field fuel as an operating
expense  with an equal  amount  recorded  as oil and gas  revenues,  with no net
income effect.  Pioneer also reflected the volumes associated with field fuel in
gas  production.  This  practice  has been  routinely  discussed by the Company,
especially in relation to the rising value of the fuel used in the field and its
contribution to rising field operating expenses.

     Although  the Company  believes  that its past  treatment of field fuel was
acceptable, the Company changed its reporting of field fuel, no longer recording
it as revenue or expense and not including it as  production.  Pioneer  believes
this presentation is more common in the industry and will provide a better basis
for comparing  Pioneer to other oil and gas companies.  Within this Report,  the
Company has  adjusted  its prior  period  revenues,  production  costs and sales
volumes  to  reflect  the new  method of  reporting  field  fuel.  The change in
reporting field fuel did not change reported net income of the periods presented
since revenues and production costs were changed in equal amounts.

Critical Accounting Estimates

     The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in
this  Report  in  accordance  with  GAAP.  See Note B of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a  comprehensive  discussion of the Company's  significant  accounting
policies. GAAP represents a comprehensive set of accounting and disclosure rules
and  requirements,  the application of which requires  management  judgments and
estimates including,  in certain circumstances,  choices between acceptable GAAP
alternatives.   Following  is  a  discussion  of  the  Company's  most  critical
accounting  estimates,  judgments  and  uncertainties  that are  inherent in the
Company's application of GAAP.

     Accounting  for oil and gas producing  activities.  The  accounting for and
disclosure of oil and gas producing activities requires the Company's management
to choose between GAAP  alternatives  and to make judgments  about  estimates of
future uncertainties.

     Successful   efforts  method  of  accounting.   The  Company  utilizes  the
successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing  activities as
opposed to the alternate  acceptable full cost method.  In general,  the Company
believes that, during periods of active  exploration,  net assets and net income
are  more  conservatively  measured  under  the  successful  efforts  method  of
accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method.
The critical  difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and
the full  cost  method  is as  follows:  under the  successful  efforts  method,
exploratory  dry holes and  geological  and  geophysical  exploration  costs are
charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas,  under
the full cost method of accounting,  such costs and expenses are  capitalized as
assets,  pooled  with the costs of  successful  wells and  charged  against  the
earnings of future periods as a component of depletion expense. During the years
ended  December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002,  the Company  recognized  exploration,
abandonment,  geological  and  geophysical  expense  of $181.7  million,  $132.8
million and $85.9 million, respectively, under the successful efforts method.

     Proved  reserve  estimates.  Estimates  of the  Company's  proved  reserves
included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines.
The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:


                                       33

<PAGE>



       o     the quality and quantity of available data,
       o     the interpretation of that data,
       o     the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and
       o     the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

     The  Company's  proved  reserve  information  included in this Report as of
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was audited by independent  petroleum engineers
with respect to the  Company's  major  properties  and prepared by the Company's
engineers  with  respect to all other  properties.  Estimates  prepared by third
parties may be higher or lower than those included herein.

     Because  these  estimates  depend  on many  assumptions,  all of which  may
substantially  differ from future  actual  results,  reserve  estimates  will be
different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately  recovered.  In
addition,  results of  drilling,  testing  and  production  after the date of an
estimate  may  justify,  positively  or  negatively,  material  revisions to the
estimate of proved reserves.

     It should not be assumed  that the  present  value of future net cash flows
included in this Report as of December  31, 2004 is the current  market value of
the Company's  estimated proved reserves.  In accordance with SEC  requirements,
the  Company  based the  estimated  present  value of future net cash flows from
proved  reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate.  Actual future
prices and costs may be materially  higher or lower than the prices and costs as
of the date of the estimate.

     The Company's  estimates of proved  reserves  materially  impact  depletion
expense.  If the  estimates of proved  reserves  decline,  the rate at which the
Company  records  depletion  expense will increase,  reducing future net income.
Such a  decline  may  result  from  lower  market  prices,  which  may  make  it
uneconomical to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, a decline
in proved reserve  estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's  assessment
of its oil and gas producing properties and goodwill for impairment.

     Impairment  of proved  oil and gas  properties.  The  Company  reviews  its
long-lived proved properties to be held and used whenever management  determines
that events or  circumstances  indicate that the recorded  carrying value of the
properties  may  not  be  recoverable.  Management  assesses  whether  or not an
impairment  provision  is necessary  based upon its outlook of future  commodity
prices and net cash  flows  that may be  generated  by the  properties  and if a
significant  downward  revision has occurred to the estimated  proved  reserves.
Proved oil and gas  properties are reviewed for impairment at the level at which
depletion of proved properties is calculated.

     Impairment  of unproved  oil and gas  properties.  Management  periodically
assesses unproved oil and gas properties for impairment, on a project-by-project
basis.  Management's  assessment  of  the  results  of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of such projects impact the amount and timing of impairment provisions, if any.

     Suspended wells.  The Company suspends the costs of exploratory  wells that
discover  hydrocarbons pending a final determination of the commercial potential
of the oil and gas  discovery.  The ultimate  disposition of these well costs is
dependent on the results of future drilling activity and development  decisions.
If the  Company  decides  not  to  pursue  additional  appraisal  activities  or
development  of these  fields,  the  costs of these  wells  will be  charged  to
exploration and abandonment expense.

     The Company  generally  does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory
well as an asset  in its  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  for more  than one year
following the completion of drilling unless the  exploratory  well finds oil and
gas reserves in an area  requiring a major capital  expenditure  and both of the
following conditions are met:

       (i)    The well has  found a  sufficient quantity of  reserves to justify
              its  completion  as a  producing  well  if  the  required  capital
              expenditure is made.
       (ii)   Drilling of the  additional  exploratory  wells  is  under  way or
              firmly planned for the near future.

Due to the capital  intensive  nature and the  geographical  location of certain
Alaskan,  deepwater Gulf of Mexico and foreign projects, it may take the Company
longer than one year to  evaluate the  future potential of the exploration  well


                                       34

<PAGE>



and  economics   associated  with  making  a  determination  on  its  commercial
viability.  In these instances,  the projects feasibility is not contingent upon
price  improvements or advances in technology,  but rather the Company's ongoing
efforts  and  expenditures  related to  accurately  predicting  the  hydrocarbon
recoverability  based on well  information,  gaining  access to other  companies
production,  transportation  or processing  facilities  and/or  getting  partner
approval to drill additional  appraisal wells.  These activities are ongoing and
being pursued constantly.  Consequently,  the Company's  assessment of suspended
exploratory  well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well
has found proved  reserves or is  noncommercial  and is impaired.  See Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the
Company's suspended exploratory well costs.

     Assessments of functional currencies.  Management determines the functional
currencies of the Company's  subsidiaries based on an assessment of the currency
of the economic environment in which a subsidiary primarily realizes and expends
its operating  revenues,  costs and expenses.  The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency of all of the Company's  international  operations  except Canada.  The
assessment of functional  currencies  can have a significant  impact on periodic
results of operations and financial position.

     Argentine   economic  and  currency   measures.   The  accounting  for  and
remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine balance sheets as of December 31, 2004
and 2003 reflect management's assumptions regarding some uncertainties unique to
Argentina's  current economic  situation.  The Argentine  economic and political
situation  continues  to evolve and the  Argentine  government  may enact future
regulations or policies that, when finalized and adopted, may materially impact,
among  other  items,  (i) the  realized  prices  the  Company  receives  for the
commodities it produces and sells;  (ii) the timing of  repatriations  of excess
cash flow to the Company's  corporate  headquarters in the United States;  (iii)
the Company's asset valuations;  and (iv)  peso-denominated  monetary assets and
liabilities. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a  description  of the
assumptions utilized in the preparation of these financial statements.

     Deferred tax asset valuation  allowances.  The Company continually assesses
both positive and negative  evidence to determine whether it is more likely than
not that its  deferred  tax assets will be realized  prior to their  expiration.
Pioneer monitors  Company-specific,  oil and gas industry and worldwide economic
factors and  reassesses  the  likelihood  that the Company's net operating  loss
carryforwards  and other  deferred tax attributes in each  jurisdiction  will be
utilized prior to their  expiration.  There can be no assurances  that facts and
circumstances  will not materially change and require the Company to establish a
United States deferred tax asset valuation  allowance in a future period.  As of
December 31, 2004,  the Company does not believe  there is  sufficient  positive
evidence  to  reverse   its   valuation   allowances   related  to  foreign  tax
jurisdictions.

     Goodwill impairment. The Company will review its goodwill for impairment at
least  annually.  This  requires  the Company to estimate  the fair value of the
assets and  liabilities  of the  reporting  units that have  goodwill.  There is
considerable  judgment involved in estimating fair values,  particularly  proved
reserve estimates as described above.

     Litigation and environmental contingencies. The Company makes judgments and
estimates in recording  liabilities  for ongoing  litigation  and  environmental
remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons.
The  costs to  settle  litigation  can vary from  estimates  based on  differing
interpretations  of laws and opinions and  assessments on the amount of damages.
Similarly,  environmental  remediation liabilities are subject to change because
of changes in laws, regulations, additional information obtained relating to the
extent and nature of site  contamination  and improvements in technology.  Under
GAAP, a liability is recorded  for these types of  contingencies  if the Company
determines the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimated.  See Note J of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the
Company's commitments and contingencies.

Results of Operations

     Oil and gas  revenues.  Revenues from oil and gas  operations  totaled $1.8
billion  during 2004, as compared to $1.3 billion during 2003 and $694.4 million
during 2002,  representing a 44 percent  increase from 2003 to 2004. The revenue
increase  from  2003 to 2004  was due to a 21  percent  increase  in  total  BOE
production,  a 23 percent  increase in oil prices,  a 32 percent increase in NGL



                                       35

<PAGE>



prices  and a 13  percent  increase  in gas  prices,  including  the  effects of
commodity price hedges.  The revenue  increase from 2002 to 2003 was due to a 37
percent  increase in BOE production,  a 12 percent  increase in oil prices, a 40
percent  increase  in NGL  prices  and a 49  percent  increase  in  gas  prices,
including the effects of commodity price hedges.

     The following  table provides  average daily sales  volumes,  by geographic
area and in total, for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year ended December 31,
                                                          ----------------------------------------
                                                             2004          2003            2002
                                                          ---------      ---------      ----------
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>            <C>
   Average daily sales volumes:
     Oil (Bbls)
       United States.................................        26,637         24,525         23,437
       Argentina.....................................         8,534          8,687          7,984
       Canada........................................           137            111            124
       Africa........................................        11,676          1,981            -
                                                          ---------      ---------      ---------
       Worldwide.....................................        46,984         35,304         31,545
                                                          =========      =========      =========
     NGLs (Bbls)
       United States.................................        19,738         20,338         20,512
       Argentina.....................................         1,546          1,318            696
       Canada........................................           917            906            946
                                                          ---------      ---------      ---------
       Worldwide.....................................        22,201         22,562         22,154
                                                          =========      =========      =========
     Gas (Mcf)
       United States.................................       521,839        423,013        211,502
       Argentina.....................................       121,654         94,128         78,220
       Canada........................................        41,867         41,669         48,365
                                                          ---------      ---------      ---------
       Worldwide.....................................       685,360        558,810        338,087
                                                          =========      =========      =========
     Total (BOE)
       United States.................................       133,349        115,364         79,201
       Argentina.....................................        30,356         25,694         21,716
       Canada........................................         8,031          7,962          9,131
       Africa........................................        11,676          1,981            -
                                                          ---------      ---------      ---------
       Worldwide.....................................       183,412        151,001        110,048
                                                          =========      =========      =========
</TABLE>

     Per BOE average daily  production for 2004 as compared to 2003 increased by
16 percent in the United States,  by 18 percent in Argentina,  by one percent in
Canada and the Company  realized first  production from South Africa and Tunisia
during 2003. The increased  production was  principally  attributable  to a full
year of production from the Falcon area, new production being initiated from the
Harrier,  Raptor and  Tomahawk  fields in the Falcon  area and at Devils  Tower,
fourth  quarter  production  added  from the  Evergreen  merger and to oil sales
having first been  realized  from the  Company's  Tunisian and South African oil
projects during August and October of 2003, respectively.  Argentine oil and gas
sales volumes  increased  during 2004 primarily due to production  volumes being
added  from the  Company's  capital  expenditures  and higher oil and gas demand
during their summer season.

     Per BOE average daily  production for 2003 as compared to 2002 increased by
46 percent in the United  States,  by 18 percent in  Argentina  and the  Company
realized  first  production  from South Africa and Tunisia  during  2003,  while
average daily production for 2003 as compared to 2002 decreased by 13 percent in
Canada due to normal  production  decline  rates.  The increased  production was
principally  attributable  to incremental gas production from the deepwater Gulf
of Mexico Canyon  Express and Falcon area  projects,  initial oil  production in
South Africa and Tunisia and  increased  oil and gas  production  in  Argentina,
offset by normal production declines.


                                       36

<PAGE>



     The following table provides average reported prices, including the results
of hedging  activities,  and average realized  prices,  excluding the results of
hedging  activities,  by  geographic  area and in  total,  for the  years  ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year ended December 31,
                                                      --------------------------------------
                                                        2004          2003            2002
                                                      --------      --------       ---------
<S>                                                   <C>           <C>            <C>>
   Average reported prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  29.41      $  25.25       $  23.66
       Argentina.................................     $  28.06      $  25.62       $  20.63
       Canada....................................     $  44.83      $  29.10       $  22.26
       Africa....................................     $  38.12      $  29.52       $    -
       Worldwide.................................     $  31.38      $  25.59       $  22.89
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  25.07      $  19.04       $  13.77
       Argentina.................................     $  29.91      $  22.85       $  14.56
       Canada....................................     $  30.87      $  24.80       $  16.77
       Worldwide.................................     $  25.65      $  19.50       $  13.92
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States.............................     $   5.15      $   4.47       $   3.16
       Argentina.................................     $    .66      $    .56       $    .48
       Canada....................................     $   4.64      $   4.93       $   3.41
       Worldwide.................................     $   4.33      $   3.84       $   2.58
   Average realized prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  39.59      $  29.58       $  23.85
       Argentina.................................     $  29.82      $  26.31       $  20.33
       Canada....................................     $  44.83      $  29.10       $  22.26
       Africa....................................     $  38.71      $  30.07       $    -
       Worldwide.................................     $  37.61      $  28.80       $  22.95
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States.............................     $  25.07      $  19.04       $  13.77
       Argentina.................................     $  29.91      $  22.85       $  14.56
       Canada....................................     $  30.87      $  24.80       $  16.77
       Worldwide.................................     $  25.65      $  19.50       $  13.92
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States.............................     $   5.72      $   4.92       $   3.01
       Argentina.................................     $    .66      $    .56       $    .48
       Canada....................................     $   5.75      $   5.30       $   3.32
       Worldwide.................................     $   4.83      $   4.25       $   2.52
</TABLE>

     Field fuel.  As  previously  discussed,  the Company  changed its method of
reporting field fuel usage during the fourth quarter of 2004.  Accordingly,  the
gas  revenues,  production  volumes and related per unit measures of all periods
presented  have been  adjusted in  accordance  with the new method of  reporting
field fuel.

     Hedging  activities.  The oil and gas prices that the  Company  reports are
based on the market price received for the  commodities  adjusted by the results
of the Company's cash flow hedging  activities.  The Company utilizes  commodity
swap and collar  contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility
on the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's
annual capital  budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price
risk associated with certain capital projects. The effective portions of changes
in the fair  values of the  Company's  commodity  price  hedges are  deferred as
increases or  decreases to  stockholders'  equity  until the  underlying  hedged
transaction occurs. Consequently, changes in the effective portions of commodity
price hedges add volatility to the Company's reported stockholders' equity until
the  hedge  derivative  matures  or  is  terminated.  See  Note  K of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data"  for  information  concerning  the  impact  to oil  and gas
revenues  during  the years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002 from the
Company's hedging activities, the Company's open hedge positions at December 31,
2004 and  descriptions of the Company's hedge  commodity  derivatives.  Also see
"Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About  Market  Risk" for
additional   disclosures  about  the  Company's   commodity  related  derivative
financial instruments.


                                       37

<PAGE>



     Argentine   commodity  prices.   During  2002,  the  Argentine   government
implemented a 20 percent tax on oil exports.  During 2002 and 2003,  the Company
exported  approximately  29  percent  and  five  percent,  respectively,  of its
Argentine oil production.  Associated therewith, the Company incurred oil export
taxes of $2.2 million and $1.2 million for 2002 and 2003,  respectively.  During
2004, the Company did not export any of its Argentine oil production. The export
tax has also had the effect of decreasing  internal  Argentine oil revenues (not
only export revenues) by the taxes levied.  The U.S. dollar equivalent value for
domestic  Argentine  oil sales (now paid in pesos) has  generally  moved  toward
parity with the U.S.  dollar-denominated  export values,  net of the export tax.
The adverse impact of this tax has been partially offset by the net cost savings
resulting from the devaluation of the peso on peso-denominated costs.

     In January 2003, at the Argentine  government's  request, oil producers and
refiners agreed to cap amounts payable for certain  domestic sales at $28.50 per
Bbl which  remained in effect  through  April 2004.  The  producers and refiners
further agreed that the difference between the actual price and the capped price
would be payable once actual prices fall below the $28.50 cap.  Subsequently the
terms were modified such that while the $28.50 per Bbl payable cap was in place,
the refiners  would have no  obligation  to pay  producers for sales values that
exceeded  $36.00 per Bbl.  Initially,  the refiners and producers also agreed to
discount U.S. dollar-denominated oil prices at 90 percent prior to converting to
pesos at the current exchange rate for the purpose of invoicing and settling oil
sales to Argentine  refiners.  In May 2004,  refiners and producers  changed the
discount  percentage  from 90 percent for all price levels to 86 percent if West
Texas Intermediate  ("WTI") was equal to or less than $36 per Bbl and 80 percent
if WTI exceeded $36 per Bbl. All the oil prices are adjusted for normal  quality
differentials prior to applying the discount.

     In 2004,  it  appeared  probable  that the price of world oil would  remain
above  the  $28.50  cap  for  the  foreseeable  future.  Given  the  uncertainty
surrounding  the  timing of when  Argentine  producers  could  expect to collect
balances  outstanding from refiners,  the Company ceased recognizing revenue and
began  recording any excess  between the actual sales price  pursuant to its oil
sales  contracts  with  Argentine  refiners  that  were  subject  to  the  price
stabilization  agreement  and the $28.50  price cap as  deferred  revenue in the
balance  sheet.  At December 31, 2004,  the Company had $5.0 million of deferred
revenue  reflected in its balance sheet  associated  with the sales in excess of
the price cap. The decision by Argentine oil producers and refiners to not renew
the price  stability  agreement  beyond  April 30, 2004 does not  terminate  the
obligation of refiners to reimburse producers for balances that accumulated from
January  2003  through  April  2004,  if and when the price of WTI  falls  below
$28.50.

     In May 2004,  the  Argentine  government  increased  the export tax from 20
percent to 25  percent.  This tax is applied on the sales  value  after the tax,
thus,  the net effect of the 20 percent and 25 percent rates is 16.7 percent and
20 percent,  respectively.  In August 2004,  the  Argentine  government  further
increased  the export tax rates for oil  exports.  The export tax now  escalates
from the current 25 percent (20 percent  effective rate) to a maximum rate of 45
percent (31 percent  effective rate) of the realized value for exported  barrels
as WTI prices per barrel increase from less than $32.00 to $45.00 and above. The
export tax is not deducted in the calculation of royalty payments and expires in
February 2007.  Given the number of  governmental  changes during 2004 affecting
the  realized  price  the  Company  receives  for its  oil  sales,  no  specific
predictions can be made about the future of oil prices in Argentina, however, in
the short term, the Company expects  Argentine oil  realizations to be less than
oil realizations in the United States.

     As a result of economic  emergency law enacted by the Argentine  government
in January 2002, the Company's gas prices,  expressed in U.S. dollars, have also
fallen in proportion to the  devaluation  of the Argentine peso since the end of
2001 due to the  pesofication  of  contracts  and  freezing of gas prices at the
wellhead  required by that law.  As a  baseline,  the  Company's  2001  realized
Argentine  gas price was $1.31  per Mcf as  compared  to $.48,  $.56 and $.66 in
2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively.

     The   unfavorable  gas  price  has  acted  to  discourage  gas  development
activities  and increased  gas demand.  Without  development  of gas reserves in
Argentina,  supplies of gas in the country have  declined,  while demand for gas
has been  increasing  due to the  resurgence  of the  Argentine  economy and the
higher cost of alternative fuels.  Recently, gas exports to Chile were curtailed
at the  direction of the  Argentine  government  and  Argentina  entered into an
agreement to import gas from Bolivia at prices starting at  approximately  $2.00
per Mcf (at the border),  including  transportation costs. In May 2004, pursuant
to a decree, the Argentine  government  approved measures to permit producers to
renegotiate  gas sales  contracts,  excluding  those  that  could  affect  small
residential customers, in accordance with scheduled price increases specified in
the decree.  The wellhead prices in the decree rise from a current range of $.61
to $.78  per  Mcf to a  range  of $.87 to  $1.04  per Mcf  after  July 1,  2005,
depending  on the  region where  the  gas  is produced.  No  further  gas  price



                                       38

<PAGE>



increases  beyond July 2005 have been allowed for in the current  decree.  Other
than an expectation that gas prices will be permitted to increase gradually over
time, as has already been demonstrated by the governing authorities, no specific
predictions  can be made about the future of gas prices in  Argentina,  however,
the Company expects  Argentine gas realizations to be less than gas realizations
in the United States.

     See "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk"
for further discussion of commodity prices in Argentina.

     Interest and other income.  The Company recorded  interest and other income
totaling $14.1 million,  $12.3 million and $11.2 during the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  The Company's interest and other income
was  comprised  of revenue  that was not  directly  attributable  to oil and gas
producing activities or oil and gas property  divestitures.  See Note N of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for additional  information regarding interest and other
income.

     Gain on  disposition  of assets.  During the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002, the Company completed asset divestitures for net proceeds of $1.7
million, $35.7 million and $118.9 million,  respectively.  Associated therewith,
the  Company  recorded  gains on  disposition  of assets of $39  thousand,  $1.3
million and $4.4 million  during the years ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and
2002, respectively.

     The net cash  proceeds  from  asset  divestitures  during  the years  ended
December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002  were  used,  together  with net cash  flows
provided by operating  activities,  to fund  additions to oil and gas properties
and to  reduce  outstanding  indebtedness.  See Note O of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

     Oil and gas production  costs.  The Company  recorded  production  costs of
$345.5  million,  $254.8  million  and $192.1  million  during  the years  ended
December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002,  respectively.  In general,  lease  operating
expenses  and  workover  expenses  represent  the  components  of  oil  and  gas
production costs over which the Company has management control, while production
taxes and ad valorem  taxes are  directly  related to commodity  price  changes.
Total production costs per BOE increased during the year ended December 31, 2004
by 11 percent as compared to 2003.  The increase in total  production  costs per
BOE during 2004 as compared to 2003 is  primarily  attributable  to increases in
production  volumes and a greater  proportion of those  volumes  coming from the
Sable  oil  field in South  Africa,  the  Devils  Tower oil and gas field in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico and, to a lesser extent,  the new production added with
the Evergreen merger which are higher operating cost properties.

     Total  production  costs per BOE decreased  during 2003 by three percent as
compared to 2002,  primarily  due to decreases  in per BOE ad valorem  taxes and
workover  expenses,  partially  offset by increases  in per BOE lease  operating
expenses and production taxes. The increase in per BOE lease operating  expenses
was due to the strengthening of both the Argentine peso and the Canadian dollar,
Argentine  inflation and higher average  lifting costs incurred on South African
Sable oil field  production,  while the  increase  in per BOE  production  taxes
primarily  resulted  from  increases in North  American gas prices and world oil
prices.  The  decrease  in per BOE ad  valorem  taxes  is  primarily  due to the
incremental  production  from the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina,  South
Africa and Tunisia fields which are not subject to ad valorem taxes.



                                       39

<PAGE>




     The  following  tables  provide  the  components  of  the  Company's  total
production  costs per BOE and total  production costs per BOE by geographic area
for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                      ----------------------------------
                                                       2004         2003          2002
                                                      -------      -------       -------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>           <C>
     Lease operating expenses.....................    $  3.86      $  3.42       $  3.40
     Taxes:
       Ad valorem ................................        .42          .41           .56
       Production.................................        .64          .64           .56
     Workover expenses............................        .23          .15           .26
                                                       ------       ------        ------
           Total production costs.................    $  5.15      $  4.62       $  4.78
                                                       ======       ======        ======
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                      ----------------------------------
                                                       2004         2003          2002
                                                      -------      -------       -------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>           <C>
     Total production costs:
       United States..............................    $  5.11      $  4.68       $  5.23
       Argentina..................................    $  2.99      $  2.78       $  1.75
       Canada.....................................    $ 10.64      $  9.92       $  8.09
       Africa.....................................    $  7.37      $  3.99       $   -
       Worldwide..................................    $  5.15      $  4.62       $  4.78
</TABLE>

     As previously discussed,  the Company changed its method of reporting field
fuel usage during the fourth quarter of 2004. Accordingly,  the production costs
and related per unit  measures of all  presented  periods have been  adjusted in
accordance with the new method of reporting field fuel.

     Depletion,  depreciation and amortization expense. The Company's total DD&A
expense  was $8.56,  $7.09 and $5.39 per BOE for the years  ended  December  31,
2004, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  Depletion expense, the largest component of
DD&A,  was $8.37,  $6.92 and $5.17 per BOE during the years ended  December  31,
2004, 2003 and 2002,  respectively,  and  depreciation and amortization of other
property  and  equipment  was  $.19,  $.17 and $.22 per BOE  during  each of the
respective  years.  During  2004 and 2003,  the  increase  in per BOE  depletion
expense  was due to a  greater  proportion  of the  Company's  production  being
derived  from  higher  cost-basis  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and South  African
developments and downward revisions to proved reserves in Canada in 2003.

     The following table provides  depletion  expense per BOE by geographic area
for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                      ----------------------------------
                                                       2004         2003          2002
                                                      -------      -------       -------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>           <C>>
     Depletion expense:
       United States..............................    $  8.61      $  7.08       $  4.85
       Argentina..................................    $  5.56      $  4.96       $  5.00
       Canada.....................................    $ 10.93      $  9.98       $  8.36
       Africa.....................................    $ 11.19      $ 10.69       $   -
       Worldwide..................................    $  8.37      $  6.92       $  5.17
</TABLE>

     Impairment of oil and gas  properties.  The Company  reviews its long-lived
assets to be held and used, including oil and gas properties, whenever events or
circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  value of  those  assets  may not be
recoverable.  During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company  recognized a
noncash  impairment  charge of $39.7 million to reduce the carrying value of its
Gabonese Olowi field assets as  development  of the discovery was canceled.  See
"Critical Accounting Estimates" above and Notes B and T of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information pertaining to the Company's accounting policies
regarding  assessments of impairment  and the Gabonese  Olowi field  impairment,
respectively.


                                       40

<PAGE>



     Exploration,  abandonments,  geological and geophysical costs. Exploration,
abandonments,  geological and geophysical  costs totaled $181.7 million,  $132.8
million and $85.9  million  during the years ended  December 31, 2004,  2003 and
2002,  respectively.  The following table provides the Company's  geological and
geophysical  costs,  exploratory dry hole expense,  lease abandonments and other
exploration  expense by geographic  area for the years ended  December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                      Africa
                                                   United                               and
                                                   States     Argentina     Canada     Other       Total
                                                  --------    ---------    --------   --------   ----------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
Year ended December 31, 2004:
   Geological and geophysical costs..........     $ 51,731    $ 11,718     $  4,047   $ 14,833   $  82,329
   Exploratory dry holes.....................       39,328       7,213       11,811     24,460      82,812
   Leasehold abandonments and other..........        7,925       4,475        4,142          6      16,548
                                                   -------     -------      -------    -------    --------
                                                  $ 98,984    $ 23,406     $ 20,000   $ 39,299   $ 181,689
                                                   =======     =======      =======    =======    ========
Year ended December 31, 2003:
   Geological and geophysical costs..........     $ 40,783    $  7,689     $  4,426   $  3,903   $  56,801
   Exploratory dry holes.....................       27,015       2,672       10,963     20,250      60,900
   Leasehold abandonments and other..........        4,934       7,715        2,302        108      15,059
                                                   -------     -------      -------    -------    --------
                                                  $ 72,732    $ 18,076     $ 17,691   $ 24,261   $ 132,760
                                                   =======     =======      =======    =======    ========
Year ended December 31, 2002:
   Geological and geophysical costs..........     $ 22,761    $  4,138     $  3,544   $  7,223   $  37,666
   Exploratory dry holes.....................       32,557       3,294        1,220       (539)     36,532
   Leasehold abandonments and other..........        7,637       2,874        1,077        108      11,696
                                                   -------     -------      -------    -------    --------
                                                  $ 62,955    $ 10,306     $  5,841   $  6,792   $  85,894
                                                   =======     =======      =======    =======    ========
</TABLE>

     The increase in 2004 exploration,  abandonments, geological and geophysical
expense,  as compared to 2003, was primarily due to a $25.5 million  increase in
geological and geophysical expenditures and a $21.9 million increase in dry hole
expense. The increase in geological and geophysical  expenditures during 2004 as
compared to 2003 was primarily  due to  expenditures  supportive of  exploration
activities  in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico,  Alaska,  Argentina  and  Africa.
Significant  components of the  Company's dry hole expense  during 2004 included
$27.7 million and $10.5 million on the Company's  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico Juno
and  Myrtle  Beach  prospects,  respectively,  $19.0  million  on the  Company's
Gabonese  Olowi  prospect  and $5.8  million  on the  Company's  Bravo  prospect
offshore  Equatorial Guinea.  During 2004, the Company drilled and evaluated 103
exploration/extension   wells,  58  of  which  were  successfully  completed  as
discoveries.    During   2003,   the   Company    drilled   and   evaluated   87
exploration/extension   wells,  42  of  which  were  successfully  completed  as
discoveries.

     The increase in 2003 exploration,  abandonments, geological and geophysical
expense,  as compared to 2002,  was  primarily due to increased  geological  and
geophysical  expenditures  supportive of  exploration  activities in the Gulf of
Mexico and Alaska and a $24.4 million  increase in exploratory dry hole expense.
The increase in exploratory dry hole expense during 2003 as compared to 2002 was
primarily due to an increase in Canadian  exploratory  drilling  activities  and
three  unsuccessful  wells  drilled in South  Africa and one  unsuccessful  well
drilled in Tunisia.

     General   and   administrative   expenses.   The   Company's   general  and
administrative  expenses  totaled $80.5 million  ($1.20 per BOE),  $60.5 million
($1.10  per BOE) and $48.4  million  ($1.21  per BOE)  during  the  years  ended
December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  respectively.  The increase in general and
administrative  expense  during 2004, as compared to 2003,  was primarily due to
increases in administrative staff, including staff increases associated with the
Evergreen merger,  and  performance-related  compensation  costs,  including the
amortization  of restricted  stock awarded to officers,  directors and employees
during the three years ended December 31, 2004.

     The increase in general and administrative expense during 2003, as compared
to  2002,   was  primarily  due  to  increases  in   administrative   staff  and
performance-related compensation costs, including the amortization of restricted
stock awarded to officers, directors and key employees during 2003 and 2002.

     Accretion  of discount on asset  retirement  obligations.  During the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded  accretion of discount on
asset retirement obligations of $8.2 million and $5.0 million, respectively. The
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 143, "Accounting




                                       41

<PAGE>



for Asset  Retirement  Obligations"  ("SFAS 143")  require that the accretion of
discount on asset  retirement  obligations  be  classified  in the  consolidated
statement of operations  separate from interest  expense.  Prior to 2003 and the
adoption of SFAS 143,  the  Company  classified  accretion  of discount on asset
retirement  obligations  as a  component  of  interest  expense.  The  Company's
interest  expense  during the year ended December 31, 2002 included $2.6 million
of accretion of discount on asset  retirement  obligations  that was  calculated
prior to the adoption of SFAS 143 based on asset retirement obligations recorded
in purchased business  combinations.  See Notes B and M of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding the Company's adoption of SFAS 143.

     The increase in accretion of discount on asset  retirement  obligations for
2004 as compared to 2003 was  primarily  due to the increase in future  plugging
and  abandonment  obligations  related  to new  wells in the  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico,  Tunisia and South  Africa and fourth  quarter  accretion of discount on
asset retirement obligations associated with the Evergreen merger.

     Interest  expense.  Interest expense was $103.4 million,  $91.4 million and
$95.8  million  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and  2002,
respectively,  while  the  weighted  average  interest  rate  on  the  Company's
indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2004 was 5.4 percent as compared to
5.3 percent and 5.7  percent  for the years  ended  December  31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively,  taking into account the effect of interest rate derivatives.  The
increase in interest  expense for 2004 as compared to 2003 was  primarily due to
an $8.0 million  decrease in interest rate hedge gains, a $3.4 million  decrease
in capitalized  interest as the Company completed its major development projects
in the Gulf of Mexico and South Africa, increased borrowings under the Company's
lines  of  credit,  primarily  as a  result  of the  Evergreen  merger,  and the
assumption of $300 million of notes in connection with the Evergreen merger.

     The decrease in interest expense for 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily
due to (i) $4.8  million  of  interest  savings  associated  with the July  2002
repayment of a $45.2 million West Panhandle gas field capital  obligation  which
bore interest at an annual rate of 20 percent;  (ii) $4.1 million of incremental
savings  from the  Company's  interest  rate  hedging  program;  a $2.6  million
decrease in accretion  expense (see  "Accretion of discount on asset  retirement
obligations",  above);  and (iii) lower  underlying  market  interest  rates and
outstanding debt.  Partially  offsetting the decreases in interest expense was a
$6.8 million  decrease in interest  capitalized  during 2003 as compared to 2002
due  to the  completion  of the  Canyon  Express  and  Falcon  area  development
projects.

     During July 2004,  the Company  exchanged  $526.8 million of three existing
series of senior  notes for a like  principal  amount of New Notes and cash.  In
accordance  with GAAP,  the Company  accounted for the debt exchange  during the
third  quarter  of  2004  as a  replacement  of the  exchanged  debt  and  began
amortizing a $109.0 million  payment made in conjunction  with the debt exchange
which  represented  the market value of the exchanged  senior notes in excess of
their stated value, along with the unamortized  carrying values  attributable to
the  issuance  costs,  discounts  and  deferred  hedge  gains and  losses of the
exchanged  debt,  as  adjustments  of interest  expense over the term of the New
Notes.

     See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information about
the Company's long-term debt, the July 2004 note exchange and interest expense.

     Other  expenses.  Other  expenses were $33.7 million  during the year ended
December 31, 2004,  as compared to $21.3  million  during 2003 and $39.6 million
during 2002. See Note P of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included
in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a  detailed
description of the components included in other expenses.  The increase in other
expense  for  2004  as  compared  to  2003  was  primarily  due  to  incremental
contingency adjustments of $11.8 million. The decrease in other expense for 2003
as compared to 2002 was  primarily  due to a decrease of $20.9 million in losses
on early extinguishment of debt.

     Income tax  provisions  (benefits).  The  Company  recognized  consolidated
income tax provisions of $166.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2004,
consolidated  income tax benefits of $64.4 million during 2003 and  consolidated
income tax provisions of $5.1 million  during 2002.  The Company's  consolidated
income tax  provisions in 2004 were  comprised of a $3.1 million  current United
States federal, state and local tax provisions,  a $22.2 million current foreign
income tax provision,  $143.8 million of deferred United States  federal,  state
and local tax provisions and $2.7 million of deferred foreign tax benefits.



                                       42

<PAGE>



     The  Company's  consolidated  tax benefits in 2003 were  comprised of a $.1
million  current United States federal tax provision,  an $11.1 million  current
foreign income tax provision,  $76.3 million of deferred  United States federal,
state and local tax benefits and $.7 million of deferred foreign tax provisions.
The 2003 deferred United States federal,  state and local tax benefits include a
$197.7 million benefit from the reversal of the Company's  valuation  allowances
against  United  States  deferred tax assets.  The  Company's  consolidated  tax
provision for 2002 was comprised of current  United States state and local taxes
of $.2 million,  current foreign taxes of $2.1 million and deferred  foreign tax
provisions of $2.8 million.

     The Company's  34.7 percent  effective tax rate for the year ended December
31, 2004 is lower than the combined  United States  federal and state  statutory
rate of  approximately  36.5 percent  primarily  due to the deferred tax benefit
recognized associated with the Company's  cancellation of the development of its
Olowi  field in  Gabon.  See  Notes Q and T of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
a discussion  regarding the Company's reversal of its United States deferred tax
valuation  allowances  during  2003 and the  Company's  decision  to cancel  its
development of the Olowi field in Gabon.

     See  "Critical  Accounting   Estimates"  above  and  Note  Q  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the  Company's tax
position.

     Cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle.  The Company adopted
the  provisions  of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2003 and  recognized a $15.4  million
benefit from the  cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle,  net of
$1.3 million of deferred income taxes.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

     Capital  commitments.   The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are  for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of  contractual  obligations  and  working  capital  obligations.   Funding  for
exploration,  development  and  acquisitions  of  oil  and  gas  properties  and
repayment  of  contractual  obligations  may be provided by any  combination  of
internally-generated  cash flow,  proceeds from the disposition of non-strategic
assets or  alternative  financing  sources as discussed  in "Capital  resources"
below.  Generally,  funding for the Company's  working  capital  obligations  is
provided by internally-generated cash flows.

     Payments for  acquisitions,  net of cash acquired.  The Company paid $880.4
million  of  cash,  net of $12.1  million  of cash  acquired,  to  complete  the
Evergreen  merger  during 2004.  As noted  above,  the Company also assumed $300
million  principal  amount of Evergreen  notes and other current and  noncurrent
obligations  associated with the Evergreen  merger.  As is further  discussed in
"Financing  activities",  below,  and in Notes C and F of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data", the Company financed the cash costs of the merger with a new $900 million
364-Day Credit Agreement (the "364-Day Credit Agreement").

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company's cash  expenditures  for additions to
oil and gas properties  during the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002
totaled $615.9  million,  $688.1 million and $614.7 million,  respectively.  The
Company's  2004 and 2003  expenditures  for additions to oil and gas  properties
were internally funded by $1.1 billion and $763.7 million,  respectively, of net
cash provided by operating  activities.  The  Company's  2002  expenditures  for
additions to oil and gas  properties  were funded by $332.2  million of net cash
provided  by  operating   activities,   $118.9  million  of  proceeds  from  the
disposition  of assets and a portion of the  proceeds  from the issuance of 11.5
million shares of the Company's common stock during April 2002.

     The Company strives to maintain its  indebtedness  at reasonable  levels in
order to provide  sufficient  financial  flexibility to take advantage of future
opportunities.  The Company's  capital budget for 2005 is expected to range from
$900 million to $950  million.  The Company  believes  that net cash provided by
operating  activities  during 2005 will be  sufficient  to fund the 2005 capital
expenditures  budget as well as reduce long-term debt to achieve a targeted debt
to book  capitalization  of less than 35  percent  and fund the  Company's  2005
dividends.  For additional  information  regarding the Company's plans for 2005,
see "2005 Outlook and Activities" above.



                                       43

<PAGE>


     Contractual  obligations,  including  off-balance  sheet  obligations.  The
Company's  contractual  obligations  include  long-term debt,  operating leases,
drilling  commitments,  derivative  obligations,  other  liabilities and, during
2005,  the  VPP  obligations.  From  time  to  time,  the  Company  enters  into
off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material
off-balance  sheet  obligations  of the Company.  As of December  31, 2004,  the
material  off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions that the Company has
entered  into  include  (i) $57.1  million  of undrawn  letters of credit,  (ii)
operating lease  agreements,  (iii) drilling  commitments  and (iv)  contractual
obligations  for  which  the  ultimate  settlement  amounts  are not  fixed  and
determinable  such as derivative  contracts that are sensitive to future changes
in commodity prices and gas transportation commitments.

     The  following  table  summarizes by period the payments due by the Company
for contractual obligations estimated as of December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Payments Due by Year
                                            ----------------------------------------------------
                                                          2006 and     2008 and
                                               2005         2007          2009       Thereafter
                                            ---------    ----------    ---------    ------------
                                                             (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
     Long-term debt (a).................    $ 130,950    $  832,075    $ 378,000     $1,151,579
     Operating leases (b)...............       56,365        83,115       32,647         13,214
     Drilling commitments (c)...........       10,468         7,957          -              -
     Derivative obligations (d).........      224,403       131,940       50,352            511
     Other liabilities (e)..............       44,541        65,099       40,401         61,833
     Transportation commitments (f).....       58,622       119,697      118,929        287,021
                                             --------     ---------     --------      ---------
                                            $ 525,349    $1,239,883    $ 620,329     $1,514,158
                                             ========     =========     ========      =========
<FN>
- ------------
(a)  See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data". The amounts included in
     the table above represent principal maturities only.
(b)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data".
(c)  Drilling commitments represent future minimum expenditure commitments under
     contracts that the Company was a party to on December 31, 2004 for drilling
     rig services and well commitments.
(d)  Derivative  obligations represent net liabilities for oil and gas commodity
     derivatives  that were valued as of December  31, 2004.  These  liabilities
     include  $.2  million  of  current  assets  and $.9  million  of  long-term
     liabilities  that are fixed in amount  and are not  subject  to  continuing
     market risk. The ultimate  settlement  amounts of the remaining portions of
     the Company's  derivative  obligations are unknown because they are subject
     to  continuing  market risk.  See "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative
     Disclosures  About  Market  Risk"  and  Note  K of  Notes  to  Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the Company's
     derivative obligations.
(e)  The Company's  other  liabilities  represent  current and noncurrent  other
     liabilities  that are  comprised  of benefit  obligations,  litigation  and
     environmental   contingencies,   asset  retirement  obligations  and  other
     obligations  for which  neither the ultimate  settlement  amounts nor their
     timings can be  precisely  determined  in advance.  See Notes H, J and M of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the
     Company's post retirement benefit obligations, litigation contingencies and
     asset retirement obligations, respectively.
(f)  Transportation  commitments represent estimated  transportation fees on gas
     throughput  commitments.  See  Note J of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements  included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary
     Data" for  additional  information  regarding the Company's  transportation
     commitments.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Capital  resources.  The Company's  primary capital  resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 2005.

     Operating activities.  Net cash provided by operating activities during the
years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002 were $1.1 billion,  $763.7 million
and $332.2 million,  respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities in
2004 increased by $340.9  million,  or 45 percent,  as compared to that of 2003.
The  increase in 2004 was  primarily  due to  increased  production  volumes and
higher  commodity  prices as compared to 2003.  Net cash  provided by  operating
activities in 2003 increased by $431.4 million,  or 130 percent,  as compared to
that of 2002.  The increase in 2003 was  primarily  due to increased  production
volumes and higher commodity prices as compared to 2002.


                                       44

<PAGE>


     Investing  activities.  Net cash used in  investing  activities  during the
years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002 were $1.5 billion,  $662.3 million
and $508.1 million,  respectively.  The $869.2 million  increase in cash used in
investing activities during 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to $880.4
million paid, net of cash acquired,  in conjunction  with the Evergreen  merger.
The $154.2 million increase in cash used in investing  activities during 2003 as
compared to 2002 was primarily  due to a $73.4 million  increase in additions to
oil  and  gas  properties  and  an  $83.2  million  decrease  in  proceeds  from
disposition  of assets.  The cash proceeds from asset  divestitures  during 2003
were used to reduce  outstanding  indebtedness.  See  "Results  of  Operations",
above,  and Note O of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information
regarding asset divestitures.

     Financing  activities.  Net cash provided by financing  activities  totaled
$414.3  million and $170.9  million during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2002,  respectively.   During  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003,  financing
activities  used $91.7 million of net cash. The increase in net cash provided by
financing activities in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to borrowings
on the  Company's  lines of credit to  finance  the cash  consideration  paid in
conjunction  with the  Evergreen  merger offset by excess  operating  cash flows
being used to repay  borrowings on the Company's  lines of credit and the $109.0
million  paid in  conjunction  with the exchange of the  Company's  senior notes
discussed  below.  During 2004,  financing  activities  were comprised of $553.4
million of net principal borrowings on long-term debt, $54.3 million of payments
of other  noncurrent  liabilities,  $26.6  million of  dividends  paid and $92.3
million  of  treasury  stock  purchases,  partially  offset by $35.1  million of
proceeds  from the  exercise  of  long-term  incentive  plan stock  options  and
employee stock purchases.  During 2003,  financing  activities were comprised of
$105.5  million of net principal  payments on long-term  debt,  $14.1 million of
payments of other noncurrent liabilities,  $2.8 million of payments for deferred
loan fees and $2.3  million of treasury  stock  purchases,  partially  offset by
$33.0  million of proceeds from the exercise of long-term  incentive  plan stock
options and employee  stock  purchases.  During 2002,  the  Company's  financing
activities were comprised of $236.0 million of proceeds,  net of issuance costs,
from the sale of 11.5  million  shares  of the  Company's  common  stock;  $48.0
million of net borrowings of long-term  debt; and $14.4 million of proceeds from
the  exercise of  long-term  incentive  plan stock  options and  employee  stock
purchases,  partially  offset by $124.2 million of payments of other  noncurrent
liabilities and $3.3 million of payments for debt issuance costs.

     Over the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, the Company has entered
into financing  transactions with the intent of reducing its cost of capital and
increasing liquidity through the extension of debt maturities.  During 2004, the
Company accepted  tenders to exchange $117.9 million,  $275.1 million and $133.8
million in principal  amount of its 8 1/4% senior notes due 2007,  9-5/8% senior
notes due 2010 and 7.50% senior notes due 2012 (collectively,  the "Old Notes"),
respectively, for a like principal amount of New Notes and cash. The exchange of
the Old Notes for the New Notes  reduces  the  Company's  future  cash  interest
expense incurred and extended the associated debt maturities.

     During  September  2004,  the  Company  entered  into  the  364-Day  Credit
Agreement that was used to finance the cash  consideration  associated  with the
Evergreen  merger.  Borrowings  under the 364-Day  Credit  Agreement may, at the
option of the Company,  be designated  to bear interest  based on (a) a rate per
annum  equal to the  higher of the  prime  rate  announced  from time to time by
JPMorgan  Chase Bank or the weighted  average of the rates on overnight  Federal
funds  transactions  with members of the Federal  Reserve System during the last
preceding  business  day plus 50  basis  point  or (b) a base  Eurodollar  rate,
substantially  equal  to  LIBOR,  plus a  margin  that is based on a grid of the
Company's  debt  rating  (75 basis  points  per  annum at  December  31,  2004).
Effective  February 4, 2005, the Company  requested that  commitments  under the
364-Day  Credit  Agreement be reduced by $250 million to $650  million.  Also in
connection with the Evergreen merger,  the Company assumed $100 million of 4.75%
Senior Convertible Notes due 2021 (the "Convertible  Notes") and $200 million of
5.875%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2012 (the "EVG  5.875%  Notes").  During
October  2004,  the  Company  issued a Notice  of Change  of  Control,  Offer to
Purchase,  and the Consent  Solicitation  Statement (the "Notice") (i) notifying
holders  of the EVG  5.875%  Notes of their  right to  require  the  Company  to
repurchase  their EVG 5.875% Notes pursuant to the terms set forth in the Notice
and (ii) soliciting  consents to proposed  amendments to the indenture governing
the EVG 5.875% Notes (the "Consent Solicitation").  A majority of the holders of
the EVG 5.875% Notes approved the Consent  Solicitation  which had the effect of
(i)  eliminating  the  subordination  of the right of  payment on the EVG 5.875%
Notes, (ii) amending certain restrictive  covenants applicable to the EVG 5.875%
Notes so that  they  are the same as the  restrictive  covenants  governing  the
Company's  other senior notes and (iii) amending  provisions  that suspend other
restrictive covenants when the EVG 5.875% Notes receive certain investment grade
ratings. Associated with the Offer to Purchase, the Company accepted tenders for
and redeemed $5.5 million of the EVG 5.875% Notes.  As a result of the Evergreen
merger,  the Convertible Notes are  redeemable at any  time at the option of the


                                       45

<PAGE>



holders.  If the holders of the Convertible  Notes do not redeem the Convertible
Notes prior to December  20,  2006,  the Company  intends to exercise its rights
under the  indenture  and  redeem the  Convertible  Notes on such date for cash,
common  stock  or  a  combination  thereof.  See  Notes  F  and  K of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplemental Data" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market Risk" for more  information  about the  Company's  debt  instruments  and
interest rate hedging activities.

     The Company's future debt level is dependent primarily on net cash provided
by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and  proceeds
generated  from asset  dispositions.  The Company  believes  it has  substantial
borrowing  capacity,  which has been further  enhanced during 2005 by the use of
the  VPP  net  proceeds  to  reduce  outstanding   indebtedness,   to  meet  any
unanticipated  cash  requirements,  and during low commodity price periods,  the
Company has the  flexibility  to increase  borrowings  and/or modify its capital
spending to meet its  contractual  obligations  and maintain  its debt  ratings.
During 2005,  $131.0 million of the Company's  8-7/8% senior notes due 2005 (the
"8-7/8% Notes") will mature and the 364-Day Credit Agreement will have its first
anniversary.  The Company intends to initially utilize unused borrowing capacity
under its 364-Day  Credit  Agreement  to repay the 8-7/8%  Notes and to transfer
outstanding  borrowings,  if any,  under the  364-Day  Credit  Agreement  to the
Company's Revolving Credit Agreement on its first anniversary.  The Company also
intends to refinance,  under its Revolving Credit Agreement,  the cash component
of a redemption  price  associated with any redemption of the Convertible  Notes
prior to December 2006, should  redemptions  occur.  Accordingly,  the Company's
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet does not reflect any current  portion of  long-term
debt as of December 31, 2004.

     As the Company  pursues its  strategy,  it may  utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Company's board of directors.

     Liquidity.  The Company's  principal source of short-term  liquidity is its
revolving  lines of  credit.  Outstanding  borrowings  under the lines of credit
totaled $828 million as of December 31, 2004. Including $49.3 million of undrawn
and  outstanding  letters of credit  under the lines of credit,  the Company had
$722.7 million of unused borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2004.

     Book capitalization and current ratio. The Company's book capitalization at
December  31,  2004 was $5.2  billion,  consisting  of debt of $2.4  billion and
stockholders' equity of $2.8 billion.  Consequently,  the Company's debt to book
capitalization  decreased to 45.7 percent at December 31, 2004 from 46.9 percent
at December 31, 2003. As more fully  discussed in "2005 Outlook and  Activities"
above, the Company has targeted a range for debt to book  capitalization of less
than 35 percent by the end of 2005.  The  Company's  ratio of current  assets to
current  liabilities was .57 at December 31, 2004 as compared to .48 at December
31, 2003. The  improvement  in the Company's  ratio of current assets to current
liabilities  was  primarily due to increases in oil and gas  receivables  due to
higher commodity prices.

     Debt  ratings.  The Company  receives  debt credit  ratings from Standard &
Poor's  Ratings  Group,  Inc.  ("S&P")  and  Moody's  Investor  Services,   Inc.
("Moody's") and are subject to regular reviews.  The Company's debt is currently
rated  BBB- with a negative  outlook by S&P and Baa3 with a negative  outlook by
Moody's,  both of which are investment- grade ratings.  S&P and Moody's consider
many factors in determining the Company's ratings  including:  production growth
opportunities,  liquidity,  debt levels and asset and reserve mix.  There are no
"ratings  triggers" in any of the Company's  contractual  obligations that would
accelerate the related  scheduled  maturities  should the Company's ratings fall
below  certain  levels.  If the Company were to be  downgraded  by either S&P or
Moody's,  it could  negatively  impact the  interest  rate and fees on  existing
indebtedness  and the Company's  ability to obtain  additional  financing or the
interest rate and fees associated with additional financing.

New Accounting Pronouncement

     On December 16,  2004,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based
Payment"  ("SFAS  123(R)"),  which  is a  revision  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation" ("SFAS



                                       46

<PAGE>



123"). SFAS 123(R)  supersedes  Accounting  Principles  Bulletin Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees"  ("APB 25") and amends  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, "Statement of Cash Flows". Generally, the
approach  in SFAS  123(R) is  similar  to the  approach  described  in SFAS 123.
However,  SFAS  123(R)  will  require all  share-based  payments  to  employees,
including  grants of employee stock  options,  to be recognized in the Company's
Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  based on their fair values.  Pro forma
disclosure is no longer an alternative.

     SFAS 123(R)  must be adopted no later than July 1, 2005 and permits  public
companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods:

o    A "modified  prospective"  method in which  compensation cost is recognized
     beginning with the effective date based on the  requirements of SFAS 123(R)
     for all share-based  payments granted after the effective date and based on
     the  requirements  of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to
     the adoption date of SFAS 123(R) that remain unvested on the adoption date.
o    A "modified  retrospective"  method which includes the  requirements of the
     modified  prospective  method described above, but also permits entities to
     restate either all prior periods  presented or prior interim periods of the
     year of adoption based on the amounts previously  recognized under SFAS 123
     for purposes of pro forma disclosures.

The Company has elected to adopt the  provisions  of SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005
using the modified prospective method.

     As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company  currently  accounts for  share-based
payments to employees using the intrinsic value method  prescribed by APB 25 and
related  interpretations.  As such,  the Company  generally  does not  recognize
compensation expenses associated with employee stock options.  Accordingly,  the
adoption of SFAS 123(R)'s  fair value method could have a significant  impact on
the Company's  future result of  operations,  although it will have no impact on
the Company's overall financial position. Had the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) in
prior  periods,  the impact  would have  approximated  the impact of SFAS 123 as
described in the pro forma net income and earnings per share disclosures in Note
B of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data".  The adoption of SFAS 123(R) will have no
effect  on the  Company's  outstanding  restricted  stock  awards.  The  Company
estimates that the adoption of SFAS 123(R),  based on the  outstanding  unvested
stock options at December 31, 2004, will result in future  compensation  charges
to general and administrative  expenses of approximately $1.8 million during the
period from July 1, 2005  through  December  31, 2005,  and  approximately  $1.1
million during 2006.

     The Company has an Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan (the "ESPP") that allows
eligible  employees  to  annually  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock  at a
discount. The provisions of SFAS 123(R) will cause the ESPP to be a compensatory
plan.  However,  the change in accounting for the ESPP is not expected to have a
material  impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position,   future  results  of
operations or liquidity.  Historically,  the ESPP compensatory amounts have been
nominal.  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information
regarding the ESPP.

     SFAS  123(R)  also  requires  the tax  benefits  in  excess  of  recognized
compensation expenses to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an
operating cash flow as required under current  literature.  This requirement may
serve to reduce the Company's  future cash provided by operating  activities and
increase  future  cash  provided  by  financing  activities,  to the  extent  of
associated  tax benefits  that may be realized in the future.  While the Company
cannot  estimate what those  amounts will be in the future  (because they depend
on, among other things,  when employees  exercise stock options),  the amount of
operating cash flows  recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions
were $6.6 million and $14.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003,  respectively.  The Company did not recognize any such tax benefits during
2002.

ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The following  quantitative  and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2004
and 2003,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates or commodity  prices.




                                       47

<PAGE>



Although  certain  derivative  contracts that the Company was a party to did not
qualify as hedges, the Company does not enter into derivative or other financial
instruments for trading purposes.

     The fair value of the Company's  derivative  contracts are determined based
on  counterparties'  estimates and valuation models.  The Company did not change
its valuation  method during the year ended December 31, 2004.  During 2004, the
Company was a party to commodity and interest rate swap  contracts and commodity
collar  contracts.  See  Note K of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional
information  regarding the Company's  derivative  contracts,  including deferred
gains  and  losses on  terminated  derivative  contracts.  The  following  table
reconciles  the changes that occurred in the fair values of the  Company's  open
derivative contracts during 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      Derivative Contract Assets (Liabilities)
                                                      ---------------------------------------
                                                                      Interest
                                                       Commodity        Rate         Total
                                                      -----------     --------     ----------
                                                                   (in thousands)
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>          <C>>
       Fair value of contracts outstanding
         as of December 31, 2003...................   $ (201,422)     $    -       $ (201,422)
       Fair value of Evergreen contracts assumed...      (52,115)          -          (52,115)
       Changes in contract fair values (a).........     (444,125)      (10,638)      (454,763)
       Contract maturities.........................      292,475        (2,167)       290,308
       Contract terminations.......................       (1,359)       12,805         11,446
                                                       ---------       -------      ---------
       Fair value of contracts outstanding
         as of December 31, 2004...................   $ (406,546)     $    -       $ (406,546)
                                                       =========       =======      =========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  At inception,  new derivative contracts entered into by the Company have no
     intrinsic value.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Quantitative Disclosures

     Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide  information about
other financial  instruments  that the Company was a party to as of December 31,
2004 and 2003 and that are or were sensitive to changes in interest  rates.  For
debt obligations,  the tables present maturities by expected maturity dates, the
weighted  average  interest  rates expected to be paid on the debt given current
contractual terms and market conditions and the debt's estimated fair value. For
fixed rate debt, the weighted  average  interest rate represents the contractual
fixed rates that the Company was obligated to periodically pay on the debt as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003.  For variable rate debt,  the average  interest rate
represents  the  average  rates  being  paid  on  the  debt  projected   forward
proportionate to the forward yield curve for LIBOR on January 31, 2005.

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2004
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                  Liability
                                                     Year Ending December 31,                                    Fair Value at
                                -----------------------------------------------------------------                December 31,
                                  2005       2006       2007       2008       2009     Thereafter     Total          2004
                                --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                                       (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  Fixed rate principal
    maturities (a)............  $130,950   $    -     $ 32,075   $350,000   $    -     $1,151,579   $1,664,604   $(1,846,110)
    Weighted average
      interest rate (%).......      6.46       6.40       6.39       7.04       7.04         7.04
  Variable rate maturities....  $    -     $800,000   $    -     $ 28,000   $    -     $      -     $  828,000   $  (828,000)
    Average interest rate (%).      3.89       4.77       5.13       5.49        -            -
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  Represents  maturities  of principal  amounts  excluding  (i) debt issuance
     discounts and premiums and (ii) deferred fair value hedge gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       48

<PAGE>




                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2003
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                   Liability
                                                      Year Ending December 31,                                   Fair Value at
                                -----------------------------------------------------------------                December 31,
                                  2004       2005       2006       2007       2008     Thereafter      Total         2003
                                --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                              (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  Fixed rate principal
     maturities (a)...........  $    -     $130,950   $    -     $150,000   $350,000    $739,169    $1,370,119   $(1,549,026)
    Weighted average
      interest rate (%).......      7.93       7.86       7.83       7.81       8.34        8.37
  Variable rate maturities....  $    -     $    -     $    -     $    -     $160,000    $    -      $  160,000   $  (160,000)
    Average interest rate (%).      2.87       4.28       5.27       5.91       6.28        -
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  Represents  maturities  of principal  amounts  excluding  (i) debt issuance
     discounts and premiums and (ii) deferred fair value hedge gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Foreign  exchange  rate  sensitivity.  There  were no  outstanding  foreign
exchange rate hedge derivatives at December 31, 2004 and 2003.

     Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information about
the Company's oil and gas derivative  financial  instruments that were sensitive
to  changes  in oil and gas  prices as of  December  31,  2004 and  2003.  As of
December  31,  2004  and  2003,  all of the  Company's  oil and  gas  derivative
financial instruments qualified as hedges.

     Commodity hedge  instruments.  The Company hedges commodity price risk with
derivative contracts,  such as swap and collar contracts. Swap contracts provide
a fixed price for a notional amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts  provide
minimum ("floor") and maximum  ("ceiling")  prices for the Company on a notional
amount of sales  volumes,  thereby  allowing  some  price  participation  if the
relevant index price closes above the floor price.

     See Notes B, E and K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a description of
the accounting  procedures  followed by the Company relative to hedge derivative
financial  instruments and for specific  information  regarding the terms of the
Company's derivative financial  instruments that are sensitive to changes in oil
and gas prices.


                                       49

<PAGE>




                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2004
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                              Liability
                                                      Year Ending December 31,                              Fair Value at
                               -------------------------------------------------------------------------    December 31,
                                 2005      2006      2007      2008     2009     2010     2011     2012         2004
                               -------   -------   -------   -------   ------   ------   ------   ------    ------------
                                                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                            <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional Bbl
   volumes:
    Swap contracts (b).......   27,000    14,500    17,000    21,000    3,500    1,000    2,000    2,000    $  (261,111)
     Weighted average fixed
      price per Bbl..........  $ 27.97   $ 34.12   $ 32.59   $ 30.72   $36.48   $36.10   $35.93   $35.86
    Collar contracts.........      -       3,500       -         -        -        -        -        -      $    (2,278)
     Weighted average ceiling
      price per Bbl..........  $   -     $ 41.95   $   -     $   -     $  -     $  -     $  -     $  -
     Weighted average floor
      price per Bbl..........  $   -     $ 35.00   $   -     $   -     $  -     $  -     $  -     $  -
  Average forward NYMEX
    oil prices (c)...........  $ 48.58   $ 45.26   $ 43.08   $ 41.01   $40.36   $39.91   $39.71   $39.51
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  See Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter.
(b)  Subsequent to December 31, 2004,  the Company  conveyed to the purchaser of
     the Spraberry VPP the following oil swap  contracts  which were included in
     the schedule above:  (i) 4,500 Bbls per day of 2006 oil sales at a weighted
     average fixed price per Bbl of $39.53,  (ii) 4,000 Bbls per day of 2007 oil
     sales at a weighted average fixed price per Bbl of $38.14, (iii) 4,000 Bbls
     per day of 2008 oil  sales at a  weighted  average  fixed  price per Bbl of
     $37.15,  (iv) 3,500  Bbls per day of 2009 oil sales at a  weighted  average
     fixed price per Bbl of $36.48,  (v) 1,000 Bbls per day of 2010 oil sales at
     a weighted  average fixed price per Bbl of $36.10,  (vi) 2,000 Bbls per day
     of 2011 oil sales at a weighted  average  fixed price per Bbl of $35.93 and
     (vii)  2,000  Bbls per day of 2012 oil sales at a  weighted  average  fixed
     price per Bbl of $35.86.
(c)  The average forward  NYMEX oil prices are based on February 18, 2005 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2003
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                      Liability
                                                           Year Ending December 31,                 Fair Value at
                                             ----------------------------------------------------   December 31,
                                               2004       2005       2006       2007       2008          2003
                                             --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   -------------
                                                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
    Swap contracts........................     18,973     17,000      5,000      1,000      5,000      $(50,240)
    Weighted average fixed price per Bbl..   $  25.84   $  24.93   $  26.19   $  26.00   $  26.09
    Average forward NYMEX oil prices (a)..   $  30.12   $  28.03   $  27.09   $  26.55   $  26.60
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  The average  forward  NYMEX oil prices are based on January 30, 2004 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>



                                       50

<PAGE>




                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2004
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                    Liability
                                                         Year Ending December 31,                 Fair Value at
                                           ----------------------------------------------------   December 31,
                                             2005       2006       2007       2008       2009          2004
                                           --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   -------------
                                                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional MMBtu
   volumes (b):
    Swap contracts (c)...................   284,055    103,534     55,000     30,000     25,000    $ (142,858)
      Weighted average fixed price per
         MMBtu...........................  $   5.22   $   4.68   $   4.69   $   5.06   $   4.72
    Collar contracts.....................       -        5,000        -          -          -      $     (299)
      Weighted average ceiling price per
         MMBtu...........................  $    -     $   7.15   $    -     $    -     $    -
      Weighted average floor price per
         MMBtu...........................  $    -     $   5.25   $    -     $    -     $    -
    Average forward NYMEX gas
      prices (d).........................  $   6.29   $   6.47   $   6.14   $   5.81   $   5.50
<FN>
- --------------
(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(b)  See Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter.
(c)  Subsequent to December 31, 2004,  the Company  conveyed to the purchaser of
     the Hugoton VPP the following gas swap contracts which were included in the
     table above:  (i) 9,151 MMBtu per day 2005 gas sales at a weighted  average
     fixed price per MMBtu of $6.17, (ii) 33,534 MMBtu per day 2006 gas sales at
     a weighted  average fixed price per MMBtu of $5.78,  (iii) 30,000 MMBtu per
     day 2007 gas sales at a weighted  average  fixed  price per MMBtu of $5.32,
     (iv) 25,000 MMBtu per day 2008 gas sales at a weighted  average fixed price
     per  MMBtu of $5.00  and (v)  25,000  MMBtu  per day of 2009 gas sales at a
     weighted average fixed price per MMBtu of $4.72.
(d)  The average forward  NYMEX gas prices are based on February 18, 2005 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2003
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  Liability
                                                             Year Ending December 31,           Fair Value at
                                                      --------------------------------------    December 31,
                                                        2004       2005      2006      2007          2003
                                                      --------   -------   -------   -------    -------------
                                                                                                (in thousands)
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
   Swap contracts...................................   283,962    60,000    70,000    20,000    $ (151,182)
      Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu........  $   4.16   $  4.24   $  4.16   $  3.51
   Average forward NYMEX gas prices (b).............  $   4.66   $  5.04   $  4.74   $  4.60
<FN>
- --------------
(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(b)  The average  forward  NYMEX gas prices are based on January 30, 2004 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>



                                       51

<PAGE>



Qualitative Disclosures

     Non-derivative financial instruments. The Company is a borrower under fixed
rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate risk.
The  Company's  objective in borrowing  under fixed or variable  rate debt is to
satisfy capital  requirements  while  minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" for a discussion of the Company's
debt instruments.

     Derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company  utilizes  interest  rate,
foreign exchange rate and commodity price derivative contracts to hedge interest
rate,  foreign  exchange  rate and  commodity  price  risks in  accordance  with
policies  and  guidelines  approved  by the  Company's  board of  directors.  In
accordance  with  those  policies  and  guidelines,   the  Company's   executive
management determines the appropriate timing and extent of hedge transactions.

     Foreign  currency,  operations  and price risk.  International  investments
represent,  and are expected to continue to represent,  a significant portion of
the Company's total assets.  Pioneer currently has  international  operations in
Africa,  Argentina and Canada,  which represent nine,  seven and five percent of
the Company's 2004  revenues,  respectively.  Pioneer  continues to identify and
evaluate  other  international  opportunities.  As  a  result  of  such  foreign
operations,  Pioneer's  financial  results  could be affected by factors such as
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, weak economic  conditions or changes
in political climates in these foreign countries.

     The  Company's  international  operations  may  be  adversely  affected  by
political  and  economic  instability,  changes  in  the  legal  and  regulatory
environment and other factors. For example:

       o  local political  and economic  developments could restrict or increase
          the cost of Pioneer's foreign operations,
       o  exchange controls and currency fluctuations  could result in financial
          losses,
       o  royalty and tax increases and  retroactive tax  claims could  increase
          costs of Pioneer's foreign operations,
       o  expropriation  of  the  Company's  property  could  result  in loss of
          revenue, property and equipment,
       o  civil  uprising,  riots,  terrorist  attacks and  wars  could  make it
          impractical to  continue operations,  resulting  in financial  losses,
       o  import and export regulations and other foreign laws or policies could
          result in loss of revenues,
       o  repatriation   levels  for   export  revenues   could   restrict   the
          availability of cash to  fund operations  outside a particular foreign
          country and
       o  laws and policies of the  U.S. affecting  foreign trade,  taxation and
          investment could restrict Pioneer's ability to fund foreign operations
          or may make foreign operations more costly.

     Pioneer does not  currently  maintain  political  risk  insurance.  Pioneer
evaluates  on  a  country-by-country  basis  whether  obtaining  political  risk
coverage is  necessary  and may add such  insurance in the future if the Company
believes it is prudent.

     Africa.  Pioneer's operations in Africa are in South Africa, Tunisia, Gabon
and  Equatorial  Guinea.  The Company views the operating  environment  in these
African nations as stable and the economic  stability as good.  While the values
of the various African nations'  currencies do fluctuate in relation to the U.S.
dollar,  the Company  believes that any currency risk  associated with Pioneer's
African  operations would not have a material impact on the Company's results of
operations  given that such  operations are closely tied to oil prices which are
denominated in U.S. dollars.

     Argentina.  During the decade of the 1990s,  Argentina's government pursued
free market  policies,  including the  privatization  of state-owned  companies,
deregulation of the oil and gas industry,  tax reforms to equalize tax rates for
domestic and foreign investors, liberalization of import and export laws and the
lifting of exchange  controls.  The  cornerstone  of these  reforms was the 1991
convertibility  law that  established  an exchange rate of one Argentine peso to
one U.S. dollar.  These policies were successful as evidenced by the elimination
of inflation  and  substantial  economic  growth  during the early to mid-1990s.
However,  throughout the decade, the Argentine  government failed to balance its
fiscal budget, incurring repeated significant fiscal deficits that by the end of
2001 resulted in the accumulation of $130 billion of debt.




                                       52

<PAGE>



     During 2001,  Argentina found itself in a critical economic  situation with
the combination of high levels of external indebtedness, a financial and banking
system in crisis,  a country  risk  rating that had  reached  levels  beyond the
historical norm, a high level of unemployment  and an economic  contraction that
had lasted four years.

     Late in 2001, the country was unable to obtain additional  funding from the
International  Monetary  Fund.  Economic  instability  increased,  resulting  in
substantial  withdrawals of cash from the Argentine  banking system over a short
period of time. The government was forced to implement monetary restrictions and
placed  limitations  on the  transfer  of funds out of the  country  without the
authorization of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina.  President De la
Rua and his entire  administration  were  forced to resign in the face of public
dissatisfaction.  After his  resignation in December 2001,  there was, for a few
weeks,  a  revolving  door of  presidents  that  were  appointed  to  office  by
Argentina's Congress, but quickly resigned in reaction to public outcry. Eduardo
Duhalde was  appointed  President  of  Argentina  in January 2002 to hold office
until the 2003 Presidential election.

     In January  2002,  the  government  defaulted on a  significant  portion of
Argentina's $130 billion of debt and the national  Congress passed Emergency Law
25,561,   which,  among  other  things,   overturned  the  long  standing,   but
unsustainable,  convertibility  plan. The government  adopted a floating rate of
exchange in February 2002. Two specific provisions of the Emergency Law directly
impact  the  Company.  First,  a tax on the  value of  hydrocarbon  exports  was
established  effective  March 1, 2002. The second  provision was the requirement
that domestic commercial transactions, or contracts, for sales in Argentina that
were  previously  denominated  in U.S.  dollars  be  converted  to pesos  (i.e.,
pesofication)  at an exchange rate to be negotiated  between sellers and buyers.
Furthermore, the government placed a price freeze on gas prices at the wellhead.
With the price of gas pesofied and frozen, the U.S.  dollar-equivalent  price of
gas in Argentina fell in direct proportion to the level of devaluation.

     The  abandonment of the  convertibility  plan and the decision to allow the
peso  to  float  in  international  exchange  markets  resulted  in  significant
devaluation of the peso. By September 30, 2002, the peso-to-U.S. dollar exchange
rate had  increased  from 1:1 to  3.74:1.  However,  since  the end of the third
quarter  of 2002,  Argentina's  economy  has shown  signs of  stabilization.  At
December 31, 2004, the peso-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate was 2.98:1.

     In Argentina,  unlike  Pioneer's  other  operating  areas,  there have been
significant factors that have kept the commodity prices, in general, below those
of the world markets and may continue to do so. The following is a discussion of
the matters affecting Argentine commodity prices:

       o   Oil Prices - In January 2002,  the Argentine  government devalued the
           peso and  enacted an  emergency law that,  in part,  required certain
           contracts that were previously payable  in U.S. dollars to be payable
           in pesos.  Subsequently,  in February 2002,  the Argentine government
           announced a 20  percent tax on oil exports,  effective March 1, 2002.
           The tax is limited  by law to a term of no more than five years.  The
           export tax  is not  deducted in the calculation of  royalty payments.
           Domestic Argentine oil sales,  while valued in U.S. dollars,  are now
           being paid in pesos.  Export oil sales continue to be valued and paid
           in U.S. dollars.

           In January 2003, at the Argentine government's request, oil producers
           and refiners agreed to cap amounts payable for certain domestic sales
           at $28.50 per  Bbl which remained in  effect through April 2004.  The
           producers and refiners further agreed that the difference between the
           actual price and the capped price would be payable once actual prices
           fall below the $28.50 cap.  Subsequently the terms were modified such
           that while  the $28.50 per Bbl payable cap was in place, the refiners
           would have  no obligation  to pay  producers  for  sales values  that
           exceeded $36.00 per Bbl.  Initially, the refiners and  producers also
           agreed to discount  U.S. dollar-denominated  oil prices at 90 percent
           prior  to converting to  pesos at  the current  exchange rate for the
           purpose of invoicing and settling oil sales to Argentine refiners. In
           May 2004, refiners and producers changed the discount percentage from
           90 percent for all price levels  to 86 percent if WTI was equal to or
           less than $36 per Bbl and 80 percent if WTI exceeded $36 per Bbl. All
           the oil prices are adjusted for normal quality differentials prior to
           applying the discount.

           In May 2004,  the Argentine government  increased the export tax from
           20 percent  to 25 percent.  This tax  is applied  on the  sales value
           after the tax,  thus, the net effect of the 20 percent and 25 percent
           rates is 16.7 percent and 20 percent,  respectively.  In August 2004,
           the Argentine  government further  increased the export tax rates for
           oil exports. The export tax now escalates from the current 25 percent




                                       53

<PAGE>



           (20 percent  effective rate)  to a  maximum  rate of  45 percent  (31
           percent effective rate) of the realized value for exported barrels as
           WTI prices per barrel increase from less than $32.00 to $45.00 and
           above.

           During 2002 and 2003,  the Company  exported approximately 29 percent
           and five percent,  respectively,  of its  Argentine  oil  production.
           Associated therewith,  the Company incurred  oil export taxes of $2.2
           million and  $1.2 million for  2002  and 2003,  respectively.  During
           2004, the Company did not export any of its Argentine oil production.
           As noted above, the export tax has also  had the effect of decreasing
           internal  Argentine  oil revenues  (not only export revenues)  by the
           taxes levied. The U.S. dollar equivalent value for domestic Argentine
           oil  sales  has  generally  moved   toward  parity   with  the   U.S.
           dollar-denominated export values,  net of the export tax. The adverse
           impact of this tax has  been partially offset by the net cost savings
           resulting from the  devaluation of the peso on peso-denominated costs
           such as labor.  Given the number of governmental  changes during 2004
           affecting the realized price the Company receives  for its oil sales,
           no specific predictions can be made about the future of oil prices in
           Argentina, however, in the short term, the Company  expects Argentine
           oil  realizations to  be less   than oil  realizations in  the United
           States.

       o   Gas Prices - The  Company  sells  its  gas  to  Argentine   customers
           pursuant   to   (a)   peso-denominated   contracts,   (b)   long-term
           dollar-denominated contracts  and (c) spot market sales.  As a result
           of economic  emergency law  enacted by the  Argentine  government  in
           January 2002,  the Company's gas prices,  expressed in U.S.  dollars,
           have fallen  in proportion  to the  devaluation of the Argentine peso
           since the end of 2001  due to the  pesofication of  contracts and the
           freezing of  gas prices at  the wellhead  required by that law.  As a
           baseline,  the Company's 2001 realized gas price was $1.31 per Mcf as
           compared to $.48, $.56 and $.66 in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively.

           The unfavorable  gas price  has acted  to discourage  gas development
           activities and  increased  gas  demand.  Without  development  of gas
           reserves in Argentina, supplies  of gas in the country have declined,
           while demand for gas has been increasing due to the resurgence of the
           Argentine economy and the higher cost of alternative fuels. Recently,
           gas exports to Chile were curtailed at the direction of the Argentine
           government and Argentina entered into an agreement to import gas from
           Bolivia at  prices  starting at  approximately  $2.00 per Mcf (at the
           border), including transportation costs.  In May 2004,  pursuant to a
           decree,   the  Argentine  government  approved   measures  to  permit
           producers  to renegotiate  gas  sales contracts, excluding those that
           could   affect  small  residential  customers,   in  accordance  with
           scheduled  price  increases  specified  in  the decree.  The wellhead
           prices in  the decree rise  from a current  range of $.61 to $.78 per
           Mcf to a range of $.87 to $1.04 per Mcf after July 2005, depending on
           the region  where the gas is produced. No further gas price increases
           beyond July 2005  have been allowed for in the current decree.  Other
           than an  expectation that gas prices  will be  permitted to  increase
           gradually  over  time,  as  has  already  been  demonstrated  by  the
           governing authorities,  no specific predictions can be made about the
           future of gas  prices in  Argentina,  however,  the  Company  expects
           Argentine gas realizations to be less  than gas  realizations  in the
           United States.

     Canada. The Company views the operating environment in Canada as stable and
the economic stability as good. A portion of the Company's Canadian revenues and
substantially  all of its costs are denominated in Canadian  dollars.  While the
value of the Canadian dollar does fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar,  the
Company believes that any currency risk associated with its Canadian  operations
would not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.

     As of December 31, 2004, the Company's  primary risk  exposures  associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility,  volatility  in the  exchange  rates  of  the  Canadian  dollar  and
Argentine  peso vis a vis the U.S.  dollar and  interest  rate  volatility.  The
Company's primary risk exposures associated with financial  instruments have not
changed significantly since December 31, 2004.




                                       54

<PAGE>




ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                          Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm...........      56
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003......      57
   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002...............................      58
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
      Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.........................      59
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002...............................      60
   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the
      Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002...................      61
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements........................      62
   Unaudited Supplementary Information...............................     105




                                       55

<PAGE>




                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
                                 ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company and subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of December 31,
2004  and  2003,  and  the  related   consolidated   statements  of  operations,
stockholders' equity, cash flows and comprehensive income (loss) for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2004.  These  financial  statements
are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our  responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with the  standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance about whether the
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the  financial  statements.  An audit also  includes  assessing  the  accounting
principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as well as
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
the Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S.  generally  accepted
accounting principles.

     We also have  audited,  in  accordance  with the  standards  of the  Public
Company  Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the  effectiveness of the
Company's  internal  control over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in Internal  Control--Integrated  Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 17, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

     As discussed in Note B to the consolidated  financial  statements,  in 2003
the  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."


                                                               Ernst & Young LLP


Dallas, Texas
February 17, 2005


                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 December 31,
                                                                           ------------------------
                                                                              2004          2003
                                                                           ----------    ----------
                                     ASSETS
<S>                                                                        <C>           <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..............................................  $    7,257    $   19,299
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $7,348 and
      $4,727 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively..............     207,696       111,033
    Due from affiliates..................................................       2,583           447
  Inventories............................................................      40,332        17,509
  Prepaid expenses.......................................................      10,822        11,083
  Deferred income taxes..................................................      33,980        40,514
  Other current assets:
    Derivatives..........................................................         209           423
    Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,486
      as of December 31, 2004 and 2003...................................       9,320         4,807
                                                                            ---------     ---------
        Total current assets.............................................     312,199       205,115
                                                                            ---------     ---------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts method
   of accounting:
    Proved properties....................................................   7,654,181     4,983,558
    Unproved properties..................................................     470,435       179,825
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization...................  (2,243,549)   (1,676,136)
                                                                            ---------     ---------
        Total property, plant and equipment..............................   5,881,067     3,487,247
                                                                            ---------     ---------
Deferred income taxes....................................................       2,963       192,344
Goodwill.................................................................     315,880           -
Other property and equipment, net........................................      78,696        28,080
Other assets:
  Derivatives............................................................         -             209
  Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $92
    as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.....................................      56,436        38,577
                                                                            ---------     ---------
                                                                           $6,647,241    $3,951,572
                                                                            =========     =========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade................................................................  $  205,153    $  177,614
    Due to affiliates....................................................      10,898         8,804
  Interest payable.......................................................      45,735        37,034
  Income taxes payable...................................................      13,520         5,928
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivatives..........................................................     224,612       161,574
    Other................................................................      44,541        38,798
                                                                            ---------     ---------
      Total current liabilities..........................................     544,459       429,752
                                                                            ---------     ---------
Long-term debt...........................................................   2,385,950     1,555,461
Derivatives..............................................................     182,803        48,825
Deferred income taxes....................................................     526,189        12,121
Other liabilities and minority interests.................................     176,060       145,641
Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    145,644,828 and 119,665,784 shares issued at December 31, 2004
    and 2003, respectively...............................................       1,456         1,197
  Additional paid-in capital.............................................   3,705,286     2,734,403
  Treasury stock, at cost; 813,166 and 378,012 shares at December 31,
    2004 and 2003, respectively..........................................     (27,793)       (5,385)
  Deferred compensation..................................................     (22,558)       (9,933)
  Accumulated deficit....................................................    (634,146)     (887,848)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
    Net deferred hedge losses, net of tax................................    (241,350)     (104,130)
    Cumulative translation adjustment....................................      50,885        31,468
                                                                            ---------     ---------
      Total stockholders' equity.........................................   2,831,780     1,759,772
Commitments and contingencies
                                                                            ---------     ---------
                                                                           $6,647,241    $3,951,572
                                                                            =========     =========
</TABLE>
                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.

                                       57

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                               -------------------------------------
                                                                  2004          2003          2002
                                                               ----------    ----------    ---------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...............................................   $1,832,663    $1,273,871    $ 694,355
  Interest and other........................................       14,074        12,292       11,222
  Gain on disposition of assets, net........................           39         1,256        4,432
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
                                                                1,846,776     1,287,419      710,009
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................................      345,504       254,750      192,145
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..................      574,874       390,840      216,375
  Impairment of oil and gas properties......................       39,684           -            -
  Exploration and abandonments..............................      181,689       132,760       85,894
  General and administrative................................       80,528        60,545       48,402
  Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations.....        8,210         5,040          -
  Interest..................................................      103,387        91,388       95,815
  Other.....................................................       33,687        21,320       39,602
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
                                                                1,367,563       956,643      678,233
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of change
  in accounting principle...................................      479,213       330,776       31,776
Income tax benefit (provision)..............................     (166,359)       64,403       (5,063)
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
  principle.................................................      312,854       395,179       26,713
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
  net of tax................................................          -          15,413          -
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
Net income..................................................   $  312,854    $  410,592    $  26,713
                                                                =========     =========     ========
Basic earnings per share:
  Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
     principle..............................................   $     2.50    $     3.37    $     .24
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
     net of tax.............................................          -             .13          -
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
  Net income................................................   $     2.50    $     3.50    $     .24
                                                                =========     =========     ========
Diluted earnings per share:
  Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
     principle..............................................   $     2.46    $     3.33    $     .23
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
     net of tax.............................................          -             .13          -
                                                                ---------     ---------     --------
  Net income................................................   $     2.46    $     3.46    $     .23
                                                                =========     =========     ========
Weighted average shares outstanding:
     Basic..................................................      125,156       117,185      112,542
                                                                =========     =========     ========
     Diluted................................................      127,488       118,513      114,288
                                                                =========     =========     ========

</TABLE>

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.

                                       58

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   (in thousands, except dividends per share)

<TABLE>
                                                                                                   Accumulated Other
                                                                                                     Comprehensive
                                                                                                     Income (Loss)
                                                                                                 ---------------------
                                                                                                   Net
                                                                                                 Deferred
                                                                                                  Hedge
                                                                                                  Gains     Cumulative     Total
                                               Additional              Deferred                  (Losses)     Trans-       Stock-
                                     Common     Paid-in     Treasury    Compen-    Accumulated      Net       lation       holders'
                                      Stock     Capital      Stock      sation       Deficit      of tax    Adjustment     Equity
                                     -------   ----------   --------   ---------   -----------   ---------  ----------   ----------
<S>                                  <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>
Balance as of January 1, 2002....... $  1,074  $2,462,272   $(48,002)  $     -     $(1,323,343)  $ 201,046   $ (7,658)   $1,285,389

Issuance of common stock............      115     235,885        -           -             -           -           -        236,000
Adjustment to common stock
  issued for 2001 partnership
  acquisitions......................      -          (175)       -           -             -           -           -           (175)
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and
  employee stock purchases..........      -           416     15,783         -          (1,810)        -           -         14,389
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred.............        7      16,169        -       (16,176)          -           -           -            -
  Deferred compensation included
    in net income...................      -           -          -         1,884           -           -           -          1,884
Net income..........................      -           -          -           -          26,713         -           -         26,713
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains
   (losses), net of tax:
     Net deferred hedge losses......      -           -          -           -             -      (181,628)        -       (181,628)
     Net hedge gains included in
       net income...................      -           -          -           -             -       (12,424)        -        (12,424)
     Tax benefits related to net
       hedge losses.................      -           -          -           -             -         2,561         -          2,561
  Translation adjustment............      -           -          -           -             -           -         2,188        2,188
                                       ------   ---------    -------    --------    ----------    --------     -------    ---------
Balance as of December 31, 2002.....    1,196   2,714,567    (32,219)    (14,292)   (1,298,440)      9,555      (5,470)   1,374,897
                                       ------   ---------    -------    --------    ----------    --------     -------    ---------
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and employee
  stock purchases...................        1       4,100     29,183         -             -           -           -         33,284
Purchase of treasury stock..........      -           -       (2,349)        -             -           -           -         (2,349)
Tax benefits related to
  stock-based compensation..........      -        14,666        -           -             -           -           -         14,666
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred.............      -         1,070        -        (1,070)          -           -           -            -
  Deferred compensation included in
    net income......................      -           -          -         5,429           -           -           -          5,429
Net income..........................      -           -          -           -         410,592         -           -        410,592
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge losses,
   net of tax:
     Net deferred hedge losses......      -           -          -           -             -      (282,165)        -       (282,165)
     Net hedge losses included in
       net income...................      -           -          -           -             -       117,416         -        117,416
     Tax benefits related to net
       hedge losses.................      -           -          -           -             -        51,064         -         51,064
  Translation adjustment............      -           -          -           -             -           -        36,938       36,938
                                       ------   ---------    -------    --------    ----------    --------     -------    ---------
Balance as of December 31, 2003.....    1,197   2,734,403     (5,385)     (9,933)     (887,848)   (104,130)     31,468    1,759,772
                                       ------   ---------    -------    --------    ----------    --------     -------    ---------
Acquisition of Evergreen
  Resources, Inc....................      254     947,334        -        (6,001)          -           -           -        941,587
Dividends declared ($.20 per
  common share).....................      -           -          -           -         (26,557)        -           -        (26,557)
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and employee
  stock purchases...................      -        (2,185)    69,848         -         (32,595)        -           -         35,068
Purchase of treasury stock..........      -           -      (92,256)        -             -           -           -        (92,256)
Tax benefits related to
  stock-based compensation..........      -         6,612        -           -             -           -           -          6,612
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred.............        5      19,122        -       (19,127)          -           -           -            -
  Deferred compensation included in
    net income......................      -           -          -        12,503           -           -           -         12,503
Net income..........................      -           -          -           -         312,854         -           -        312,854
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge losses,
   net of tax:
     Net deferred hedge losses......      -           -          -           -             -      (443,318)        -       (443,318)
     Net hedge losses included in
       net income...................      -           -          -           -             -       232,758         -        232,758
     Tax benefits related to net
       hedge losses.................      -           -          -           -             -        73,340         -         73,340
  Translation adjustment............      -           -          -           -             -           -        19,417       19,417
                                       ------   ---------    -------    --------    ----------    --------     -------    ---------
Balance as of December 31, 2004..... $  1,456  $3,705,286   $(27,793)  $ (22,558)  $  (634,146)  $(241,350)   $ 50,885   $2,831,780
                                      =======   =========    =======    ========    ==========    ========     =======    =========
</TABLE>

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.

                                       59

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                                  --------------------------------------
                                                                      2004          2003          2002
                                                                  -----------    ----------    ---------
<S>                                                               <C>            <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income...................................................   $   312,854    $  410,592    $  26,713
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization................       574,874       390,840      216,375
       Impairment of oil and gas properties....................        39,684           -            -
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes...............       146,833        97,690       64,617
       Deferred income taxes...................................       141,072       (75,588)       2,788
       Gain on disposition of assets, net......................           (39)       (1,256)      (4,432)
       Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations...         8,210         5,040          -
       Noncash interest expense................................       (12,208)      (20,610)      (5,809)
       Commodity hedge related amortization....................       (45,102)      (71,816)      26,490
       Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
          net of tax...........................................           -         (15,413)         -
       Amortization of stock-based compensation................        12,503         5,429        1,884
       Other noncash items.....................................        16,913         4,966       29,763
     Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of
      effects from acquisitions:
       Accounts receivable, net................................       (73,376)      (10,983)     (23,922)
       Inventories.............................................       (14,025)       (7,734)       3,023
       Prepaid expenses........................................           974        (5,598)       2,330
       Other current assets, net...............................           262          (602)      (4,166)
       Accounts payable........................................           250        58,603         (342)
       Interest payable........................................         5,533          (424)          48
       Income taxes payable....................................         3,372         5,928         (530)
       Other current liabilities...............................       (14,037)       (5,385)      (2,585)
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
          Net cash provided by operating activities............     1,104,547       763,679      332,245
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Payments for acquisition, net of cash acquired...............      (880,365)          -            -
  Proceeds from disposition of assets..........................         1,709        35,698      118,850
  Additions to oil and gas properties..........................      (615,895)     (688,133)    (614,698)
  Other property additions, net................................       (36,970)       (9,865)     (12,283)
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
          Net cash used in investing activities................    (1,531,521)     (662,300)    (508,131)
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..............................     1,157,903       264,725      529,805
  Principal payments on long-term debt.........................      (604,475)     (370,262)    (481,783)
  Common stock issuance proceeds, net of issuance costs........           -             -        236,000
  Payment of other liabilities.................................       (54,252)      (14,055)    (124,245)
  Exercise of long-term incentive plan stock options and
     employee stock purchases..................................        35,068        33,020       14,389
  Purchase of treasury stock...................................       (92,256)       (2,349)         -
  Payment of financing fees....................................        (1,173)       (2,799)      (3,293)
  Dividends paid...............................................       (26,557)          -            -
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
          Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..       414,258       (91,720)     170,873
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ..........       (12,716)        9,659       (5,013)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...           674         1,150         (831)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year...................        19,299         8,490       14,334
                                                                   ----------     ---------     --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year.........................   $     7,257    $   19,299    $   8,490
                                                                   ==========     =========     ========
</TABLE>

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.

                                       60

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year ended December 31,
                                                               -------------------------------------
                                                                  2004         2003           2002
                                                               ---------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>           <C>
Net income................................................    $  312,854    $  410,592    $   26,713

Other comprehensive loss:
  Net deferred hedge losses, net of tax:
     Net deferred hedge losses............................      (443,318)     (282,165)     (181,628)
     Net hedge losses (gains) included in net income......       232,758       117,416       (12,424)
     Tax benefits related to net hedge losses.............        73,340        51,064         2,561
  Translation adjustment..................................        19,417        36,938         2,188
                                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

        Other comprehensive loss..........................      (117,803)      (76,747)     (189,303)
                                                               ---------     ---------     ---------

Comprehensive income (loss)...............................    $  195,051    $  333,845    $ (162,590)
                                                               =========     =========     =========

</TABLE>





                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.



                                       61


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

     Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer"  or  the  "Company")  is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange.  The Company is a large  independent oil and gas exploration and
production  company with  operations in the United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

     On  September  28,  2004,  the Company  completed  a merger with  Evergreen
Resources, Inc. ("Evergreen"),  as set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger
dated May 3, 2004 (the "Merger  Agreement"),  that added to the Company's United
States and Canadian  asset base and expanded its  portfolio of  development  and
exploration   opportunities  in  North  America.   Evergreen's  operations  were
primarily  focused on developing  and expanding its coal bed methane  production
from the Raton Basin in southern Colorado.

     In  accordance  with the  provisions  of Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 141,  "Business  Combinations"  ("SFAS 141"),  the merger has been
accounted for as a purchase of Evergreen by Pioneer. As a result, the historical
financial  statements  for the Company are those of Pioneer,  and the  Company's
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  present the  addition of  Evergreen's  assets and
liabilities as of September 28, 2004. The accompanying  Consolidated  Statements
of Operations  and  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows include the financial
results  of  Evergreen  since  October  1,  2004.  See  Note  C  for  additional
information regarding the Evergreen merger.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries
since  their  acquisition  or  formation,  and  the  Company's  interest  in the
affiliated  oil and gas  partnerships  for which it serves  as  general  partner
through certain of its wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  The Company  proportionately
consolidates less than 100 percent-owned  affiliate partnerships involved in oil
and gas producing  activities in accordance with industry practice.  The Company
owns less than a 20 percent  interest  in the oil and gas  partnerships  that it
proportionately   consolidates.   All   material   intercompany   balances   and
transactions have been eliminated.

     Minority interests. As of December 31, 2004, other liabilities and minority
interests in the Company's  Consolidated  Balance Sheet includes $8.7 million of
minority  interests  attributable  to  outside  ownership  interests  in certain
entities  acquired  in the  Evergreen  merger.  The  minority  interest in these
subsidiaries'  net income for the three months  ended  December 31, 2004 was $.9
million and is included in other expense in the Company's Consolidated Statement
of Operations.

     Investments.  Investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities  that have a
readily  determinable  fair value are  classified  as  "trading  securities"  if
management's  current  intent is to hold  them for only a short  period of time;
otherwise,  they  are  accounted  for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The
Company  reevaluates the  classification  of investments in unaffiliated  equity
securities at each balance sheet date. The carrying value of trading  securities
and available-for-sale  securities are adjusted to fair value as of each balance
sheet date.

     Unrealized  holding gains are recognized for trading securities in interest
and other revenue, and unrealized holding losses are recognized in other expense
during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.

     Unrealized  holding gains and losses are recognized for  available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income (loss) during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.



                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Realized gains and losses on the  divestiture of  available-for-sale  securities
are determined using the average cost method.  The Company had no investments in
available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2004 or 2003.

     Investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities that do not have a readily
determinable  fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost or the
net realizable  value of the investment.  The Company had no significant  equity
security  investments that did not have a readily  determinable fair value as of
December 31, 2004 or 2003.

     Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements. Preparation of
the accompanying  consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities,  the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting periods.  Depletion of oil and gas properties is determined
using estimates of proved oil and gas reserves. There are numerous uncertainties
inherent  in  the  estimation  of  quantities  of  proved  reserves  and  in the
projection  of  future  rates  of  production  and  the  timing  of  development
expenditures.  Similarly,  evaluations for impairment of proved and unproved oil
and gas  properties  are  subject to  numerous  uncertainties  including,  among
others,  estimates of future  recoverable  reserves;  commodity  price outlooks;
foreign laws,  restrictions  and currency  exchange rates; and export and excise
taxes. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions utilized.

     Argentina  devaluation.  Early in January 2002,  the  Argentine  government
severed the direct  one-to-one U.S. dollar to Argentine peso  relationship  that
had existed for many years.  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003,  the Company used
exchange  rates  of 2.98  pesos to $1 and 2.93  pesos  to $1,  respectively,  to
remeasure the peso-denominated  monetary assets and liabilities of the Company's
Argentine subsidiaries.  The remeasurement of the peso-denominated  monetary net
assets of the Company's Argentine subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002  resulted  in a gain of $.2  million  and  charges of $.3  million and $6.9
million, respectively.

     As a result of certain  Argentine  stability laws and  regulations  enacted
since the  devaluation  of the Argentine peso which impact the price the Company
receives for the oil and gas it produces,  the Company  continually  reviews its
Argentine proved and unproved  properties for impairment.  Based on estimates of
future  commodity  prices and  operating  costs,  the Company  believes that the
future  cash  flows  from its oil and gas  assets  will be  sufficient  to fully
recover  its proved  property  basis.  The Company  also plans to  continue  its
exploration  efforts on all of its remaining  unproved  acreage.  Based upon the
Company's improved economic outlook for Argentina, the Company has significantly
increased its capital budget for exploration and development  activities in 2005
as compared to the capital budgets in 2004 and 2003.

     While the Argentine economic and political  situation continues to improve,
the Argentine  government may enact future  regulations  or policies that,  when
finalized  and  adopted,  may  materially  impact,  among other  items,  (i) the
realized prices the Company  receives for the commodities it produces and sells;
(ii) the timing of repatriations of excess cash flow to the Company's  corporate
headquarters in the United States;  (iii) the Company's asset  valuations;  (iv)
the Company's level of future investments in Argentina; and (v) peso-denominated
monetary  assets and  liabilities.  While  conditions  are  improving,  numerous
uncertainties exist surrounding the ultimate resolution of Argentina's  economic
and political stability.

     Adoption  of SFAS  143.  On  January  1,  2003,  the  Company  adopted  the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 143, "Accounting
for Asset Retirement  Obligations"  ("SFAS 143").  SFAS 143 amended Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing Companies" ("SFAS 19") to require that the fair value of a
liability  for an asset  retirement  obligation  be  recognized in the period in
which it is incurred if a reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  Under
the provisions of SFAS 143, asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part
of the carrying value of the long-lived asset.



                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The  adoption of SFAS 143 resulted in a January 1, 2003  cumulative  effect
adjustment  to record a gain of $15.4  million,  net of $1.3 million of deferred
tax, as a cumulative  effect  adjustment of a change in accounting  principle in
the Company's Consolidated  Statements of Operations.  See Note M for additional
information regarding the Company's asset retirement obligations.

     The  following  table  illustrates  the pro forma  effect on net income and
earnings  per share for the years  ended  December  31,  2003 and 2002 as if the
Company had adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2002.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year ended December 31,
                                                           ----------------------------
                                                              2003               2002
                                                           ---------          ---------
                                                      (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                        <C>                <C>
       Net income, as reported........................     $ 410,592          $  26,713
       Pro forma adjustments to reflect retroactive
          adoption of SFAS 143........................       (15,413)             4,743
                                                            --------           --------
       Pro forma net income...........................     $ 395,179          $  31,456
                                                            ========           ========
       Net income per share:
          Basic - as reported.........................     $    3.50          $     .24
                                                            ========           ========
          Basic - pro forma...........................     $    3.37          $     .28
                                                            ========           ========
          Diluted - as reported.......................     $    3.46          $     .23
                                                            ========           ========
          Diluted - pro forma.........................     $    3.33          $     .28
                                                            ========           ========
</TABLE>

     Cash  equivalents.  Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

     Inventories - equipment.  Lease and well equipment  inventory to be used in
future joint  operations  activities are carried at the lower of cost or market,
on a first-in,  first-out  basis.  Total lease and well equipment  inventory was
$37.9 million and $15.3 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,  respectively,
and is net of valuation reserve  allowances of $.4 million and $.6 million as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     Inventories - commodities.  Commodities are carried at the lower of average
cost or market. When sold from inventory, commodities are removed on a first-in,
first-out basis. Total commodity  inventory was $2.4 million and $2.2 million as
of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company utilizes the successful efforts method
of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this  method,  all costs
associated  with  productive  wells  and  nonproductive  development  wells  are
capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical
expenditures are expensed.  The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for
significant  development  projects  until  such  projects  are  ready  for their
intended use.

     The Company  generally  does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory
well as an asset  in its  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  for more  than one year
following the completion of drilling unless the  exploratory  well finds oil and
gas reserves in an area  requiring a major capital  expenditure  and both of the
following conditions are met:

       (i)    The well  has found a  sufficient quantity  of reserves to justify
              its  completion  as  a  producing  well  if the  required  capital
              expenditure is made.
       (ii)   Drilling  of the  additional  exploratory  wells  is under  way or
              firmly planned for the near future.


                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Due to the capital  intensive  nature and the  geographical  location of certain
Alaskan,  deepwater Gulf of Mexico and foreign projects, it may take the Company
longer than one year to evaluate the future  potential of the  exploration  well
and  economics   associated  with  making  a  determination  on  its  commercial
viability.  In these instances,  the projects feasibility is not contingent upon
price  improvements or advances in technology,  but rather the Company's ongoing
efforts  and  expenditures  related to  accurately  predicting  the  hydrocarbon
recoverability  based on well  information,  gaining  access to other  companies
production,  transportation  or processing  facilities  and/or  getting  partner
approval to drill additional  appraisal wells.  These activities are ongoing and
being pursued constantly.  Consequently,  the Company's  assessment of suspended
exploratory  well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well
has found proved reserves or is  noncommercial  and is impaired.  See Note D for
additional information regarding the Company's suspended exploratory well costs.

     The Company  owns  interests in 11 natural gas  processing  plants and five
treating  facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the  plants and all five
treating  facilities.  The  Company's  ownership  in the natural gas  processing
plants  and  treating  facilities  is  primarily  to  accommodate  handling  the
Company's gas  production and thus are considered a component of the capital and
operating costs of the respective  fields that they service.  To the extent that
there is excess capacity at a plant or treating  facility,  the Company attempts
to  process  third  party gas  volumes  for a fee to keep the plant or  treating
facility at capacity.  All  revenues  and expenses  derived from third party gas
volumes  processed  through the plants and treating  facilities  are reported as
components of oil and gas production  costs. The third party revenues  generated
from the plant and treating  facilities  for the three years ended  December 31,
2004,  2003 and 2002 were  $45.9  million,  $39.5  million  and  $28.4  million,
respectively.  The third party expenses  attributable to the plants and treating
facilities for the same respective periods were $11.9 million, $11.3 million and
$9.3 million.  The capitalized  costs of the plants and treating  facilities are
included in proved oil and gas  properties  and are depleted  using the unit-of-
production  method along with the other capitalized costs of the field that they
service.

     Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties  are depleted  using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves.  Costs  of  significant
nonproducing  properties,  wells in the process of being drilled and development
projects are excluded from depletion  until such time as the related  project is
completed and proved reserves are established or, if unsuccessful, impairment is
determined.

     Proceeds from the sales of individual  properties and the capitalized costs
of   individual   properties   sold  or  abandoned  are  credited  and  charged,
respectively,   to  accumulated   depletion,   depreciation  and   amortization.
Generally,  no gain or loss is recognized until the entire  amortization base is
sold.  However,  gain or loss is recognized from the sale of less than an entire
amortization base if the disposition is significant  enough to materially impact
the depletion rate of the remaining properties in the amortization base.

     In accordance  with  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 144,
"Accounting  for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets" ("SFAS 144"),
the Company reviews its long-lived assets to be held and used,  including proved
oil and gas  properties  accounted for under the  successful  efforts  method of
accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
those assets may not be recoverable.  An impairment loss is indicated if the sum
of the  expected  future  cash  flows is less  than the  carrying  amount of the
assets. In this circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the
amount by which the  carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the  estimated  fair
value of the asset.

     Unproved oil and gas properties are periodically assessed for impairment on
a project-by-project basis. The impairment assessment is affected by the results
of exploration  activities,  commodity price  outlooks,  planned future sales or
expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of potential
reserves  determined by such  evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the
cost invested in each project,  the Company will recognize an impairment loss at
that time by recording an allowance.



                                       65

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     Goodwill. As is described in Note C, the Company recorded $324.8 million of
goodwill  associated with the Evergreen merger. The goodwill was recorded to the
Company's  United States reporting unit and will be subject to change during the
twelve-month  period  following the merger if the settlement  values of monetary
assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed  in the  merger  differ  from  their
estimated  values as of September 28, 2004. In accordance  with Emerging  Issues
Task Force ("EITF") Abstract Issue No. 00-23,  "Issues Related to the Accounting
for Stock Compensation under APB Opinion No. 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 44",
the Company  reduced  goodwill by $9.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2004
for tax benefits  associated  with the exercise of  fully-vested  stock  options
assumed  in  conjunction  with  the  Evergreen  merger  to the  extent  that the
stock-based  compensation  expense  reported for tax purposes did not exceed the
fair value of the awards  recognized  as part of the total  purchase  price.  In
accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other  Intangible  Assets",  goodwill is not  amortized  to earnings  but is
assessed  for  impairment   whenever  events  or  circumstances   indicate  that
impairment of the carrying  value of goodwill is likely,  but no less often than
annually.  If the carrying value of goodwill is determined to be impaired, it is
reduced for the impaired value with a corresponding charge to pretax earnings in
the period in which it is determined to be impaired.

     Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are  recorded  at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

     Environmental.  The Company's  environmental  expenditures  are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or  mitigate  or  prevent  future   environmental   contamination  are
capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability are fixed or reliably determinable.

     Revenue recognition. The Company does not recognize revenues until they are
realized  or  realizable  and  earned.   Revenues  are  considered  realized  or
realizable and earned when: (i)  persuasive  evidence of an arrangement  exists;
(ii)  delivery has occurred or services have been  rendered;  (iii) the seller's
price  to the  buyer  is  fixed  or  determinable  and  (iv)  collectibility  is
reasonably assured.

     The Company uses the entitlements method of accounting for oil, NGL and gas
revenues.  Sales proceeds in excess of the Company's entitlement are included in
other  liabilities  and the Company's share of sales taken by others is included
in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     The Company had no oil or natural gas liquid ("NGL")  entitlement assets or
liabilities  as of December 31, 2004 or 2003.  The following  table presents the
Company's gas entitlement assets and liabilities and their associated volumes as
of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            December 31,
                                                -------------------------------------
                                                      2004                2003
                                                ----------------    -----------------
                                                Amount     MMcf     Amount     MMcf
                                                ------    ------    ------    ------
                                                                ($ in millions)
<S>                                             <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
       Entitlement assets..................     $ 10.4     3,842    $ 10.5     3,929
       Entitlement liabilities.............     $ 14.7    11,859    $ 15.8    14,793
</TABLE>

     Derivatives and hedging. The Company follows the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and  Hedging   Activities"  ("SFAS  133").  SFAS  133  requires  the  accounting
recognition  of all  derivative  instruments  as either assets or liabilities at



                                       66

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


fair value.  Derivative instruments that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair
value  through net income.  Under the  provisions  of SFAS 133,  the Company may
designate a derivative instrument as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair
value  of an asset or a  liability  or an  identified  portion  thereof  that is
attributable  to a  particular  risk (a "fair  value  hedge") or as hedging  the
exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that are attributable to a
particular  risk (a "cash flow hedge").  Both at the inception of a hedge and on
an ongoing basis, a fair value hedge must be expected to be highly  effective in
achieving  offsetting  changes in fair  value  attributable  to the hedged  risk
during the periods that a hedge is designated. Similarly, a cash flow hedge must
be  expected  to  be  highly  effective  in  achieving   offsetting  cash  flows
attributable to the hedged risk during the term of the hedge. The expectation of
hedge  effectiveness  must be supported by matching the  essential  terms of the
hedged  asset,  liability or  forecasted  transaction  to the  derivative  hedge
contract or by effectiveness  assessments  using statistical  measurements.  The
Company's  policy is to assess hedge  effectiveness  at the end of each calendar
quarter.

     Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments  that are fair value hedges are offset  against  changes in the fair
value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments through net income.
Effective changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are cash flow
hedges are recognized in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss) - net
deferred  hedge losses,  net of tax in the  stockholders'  equity section of the
Company's  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets until such time as the hedged items are
recognized  in net income.  Ineffective  portions of a  derivative  instrument's
change in fair value are immediately recognized in net income.

     See  Note  K  for  a  description  of  the  specific  types  of  derivative
transactions in which the Company participates.

     Stock-based  compensation.  The Company has a long-term incentive plan (the
"Long-Term   Incentive  Plan")  under  which  the  Company  grants   stock-based
compensation.  The Long-Term  Incentive  Plan is described more fully in Note H.
The Company  accounts for stock-based  compensation  granted under the Long-Term
Incentive  Plan  using the  intrinsic  value  method  prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Bulletin Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
("APB  25")  and  related  interpretations.   Stock-based  compensation  expense
associated  with option grants was not  recognized in the  determination  of the
Company's net income during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, as
all options granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan had exercise prices equal
to the market value of the underlying common stock on the dates of grant or were
issued in exchange for fully-vested  Evergreen options as purchase consideration
in the  Evergreen  merger.  Stock-based  compensation  expense  associated  with
restricted  stock awards is deferred and amortized to earnings  ratably over the
vesting  periods of the awards.  See "New  accounting  pronouncement"  below for
information   regarding  the  Company's   adoption  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 123  (revised  2004),  "Share-Based  Payment"  ("SFAS
123(R)") on July 1, 2005.


                                       67

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The  following  table  illustrates  the pro forma  effect on net income and
earnings  per share as if the Company  had  applied  the fair value  recognition
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based  Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), to stock-based  compensation during
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year ended December 31,
                                                             ------------------------------------
                                                                2004         2003         2002
                                                             ---------    ---------    ----------
                                                           (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                          <C>          <C>          <C>
     Net income, as reported..............................   $ 312,854    $ 410,592    $  26,713
     Plus: Stock-based compensation expense included
       in net income for all awards, net of tax (a).......       7,939        3,447        1,884
     Deduct: Stock-based compensation expense
       determined under fair value based method
       for all awards, net of tax (a).....................     (13,985)     (11,429)     (11,691)
                                                              --------     --------     --------
     Pro forma net income.................................   $ 306,808    $ 402,610    $  16,906
                                                              ========     ========     ========
     Net income per share:
       Basic - as reported................................   $    2.50    $    3.50    $     .24
                                                              ========     ========     ========
       Basic - pro forma..................................   $    2.45    $    3.44    $     .15
                                                              ========     ========     ========
       Diluted - as reported..............................   $    2.46    $    3.46    $     .23
                                                              ========     ========     ========
       Diluted - pro forma................................   $    2.41    $    3.40    $     .15
                                                              ========     ========     ========
<FN>
- -----------
(a)  For the years ended  December 31, 2004 and 2003,  stock-based  compensation
     expense  included in net income is net of tax  benefits of $4.6 million and
     $2.0 million,  respectively.  Similarly,  stock-based  compensation expense
     determined  under the fair value based method for the years ended  December
     31, 2004 and 2003 is net of tax benefits of $8.0 million and $6.6  million,
     respectively.   No  tax  benefits  were   recognized  for  the  stock-based
     compensation  expense  amounts during the year ended December 31, 2002. See
     Note Q for additional information regarding the Company's income taxes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Foreign currency  translation.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency
for all of the Company's  international  operations except Canada.  Accordingly,
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are remeasured
to U.S.  dollars  at the  exchange  rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses  denominated in a foreign  currency are
remeasured  at the average of the exchange  rates that were in effect during the
period  in which  the  revenues  and costs and  expenses  were  recognized.  The
resulting gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency denominated balances
into U.S.  dollars are recorded in other income or other expense,  respectively.
Nonmonetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in a  foreign  currency  are
remeasured at the historic exchange rates that were in effect when the assets or
liabilities were acquired or incurred.

     The  functional  currency  of  the  Company's  Canadian  operations  is the
Canadian dollar. The financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiary
entities are translated to U.S.  dollars as follows:  all assets and liabilities
are  translated  using the exchange rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses are translated using the average of the
exchange  rates that were in effect  during the period in which the revenues and
costs  and  expenses  were  recognized.  The  resulting  gains  or  losses  from
translating   non-U.S.   dollar   denominated   balances  are  recorded  in  the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the period
through accumulated other comprehensive  income (loss) - cumulative  translation
adjustment.



                                       68

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The  following  table  presents  the exchange  rates used to translate  the
financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiaries in the preparation
of the consolidated  financial statements as of and for the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            December 31,
                                                                       -----------------------
                                                                       2004     2003     2002
                                                                       -----    -----    -----
<S>                                                                    <C>      <C>      <C>
     U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets...............  .8320    .7710    .6362
     U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of Operations.....  .7699    .7161    .6371
</TABLE>

     Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2003 and
2002 amounts in order to conform with the 2004 presentation.  Specifically,  the
Company  reduced oil and gas revenues and production  costs by $40.6 million and
$23.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively,  to
conform  with its current  treatment  of field fuel.  During  2004,  the Company
changed its  treatment  of field fuel,  which is gas  consumed to operate  field
equipment,  to  exclude  the  field  fuel  gas  from  oil and gas  revenues  and
production costs. The Company also increased oil and gas revenues and production
costs by $15.8 million and $16.2  million for the years ended  December 31, 2003
and 2002,  respectively,  to conform with its current  treatment of Canadian gas
transportation costs. During 2004, the Company changed its treatment of Canadian
gas  transportation  costs to include  these costs as a component of oil and gas
production  costs.  In prior  years,  transportation  costs were  recorded  as a
reduction to oil and gas revenues.

     New  accounting   pronouncement.   On  December  16,  2004,  the  Financial
Accounting  Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS 123(R),  which is a revision of
SFAS 123.  SFAS 123(R)  supersedes  APB 25 and amends  Statement  of  Accounting
Standards  No. 95,  "Statement of Cash Flows".  Generally,  the approach in SFAS
123(R) is similar to the approach  described in SFAS 123.  However,  SFAS 123(R)
will require all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee
stock  options,  to be recognized in the  Company's  Consolidated  Statements of
Operations  based on their fair  values.  Pro forma  disclosure  is no longer an
alternative.

     SFAS 123(R)  must be adopted no later than July 1, 2005 and permits  public
companies to adopt its requirements using one of two methods:

o    A "modified  prospective"  method in which  compensation cost is recognized
     beginning with the effective date based on the  requirements of SFAS 123(R)
     for all share-based  payments  granted after the adoption date and based on
     the  requirements  of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to
     the  effective  date of SFAS 123(R) that  remain  unvested on the  adoption
     date.
o    A "modified  retrospective"  method which includes the  requirements of the
     modified  prospective  method described above, but also permits entities to
     restate either all prior periods  presented or prior interim periods of the
     year of adoption based on the amounts previously  recognized under SFAS 123
     for purposes of pro forma disclosures.

The Company has elected to adopt the  provisions  of SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005
using the modified prospective method.

     As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company  currently  accounts for  share-based
payments to employees using the intrinsic value method  prescribed by APB 25 and
related  interpretations.  As such,  the Company  generally  does not  recognize
compensation expenses associated with employee stock options.  Accordingly,  the
adoption of SFAS 123(R)'s  fair value method could have a significant  impact on
the Company's  future result of  operations,  although it will have no impact on
the Company's overall financial position. Had the Company adopted SFAS 123(R) in
prior  periods,  the impact  would have  approximated  the impact of SFAS 123 as
described in the pro forma net income and earnings per share disclosures  above.
The  adoption  of SFAS  123(R)  will have no effect  on the  Company's  unvested
outstanding  restricted stock awards. The Company estimates that the adoption of
SFAS 123(R),  based on the  outstanding  unvested  stock options at December 31,
2004, will result in future  compensation  charges to general and administrative




                                       69

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


expenses  of  approximately  $1.8  million  during the period  from July 1, 2005
through December 31, 2005, and approximately $1.1 million during 2006.

     The Company has an Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan (the "ESPP") that allows
eligible  employees  to  annually  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock  at a
discount. The provisions of SFAS 123(R) will cause the ESPP to be a compensatory
plan.  However,  the change in accounting for the ESPP is not expected to have a
material  impact  on  the  Company's  financial  position,   future  results  of
operations or liquidity.  Historically,  the ESPP compensatory amounts have been
nominal. See Note H for additional information regarding the ESPP.

     SFAS  123(R)  also  requires  the tax  benefits  in  excess  of  recognized
compensation expenses to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an
operating cash flow as required under current  literature.  This requirement may
serve to reduce the Company's  future cash provided by operating  activities and
increase  future  cash  provided  by  financing  activities,  to the  extent  of
associated  tax benefits  that may be realized in the future.  While the Company
cannot  estimate what those  amounts will be in the future  (because they depend
on, among other things,  when employees  exercise stock options),  the amount of
operating cash flows  recognized in prior periods for such excess tax deductions
were $6.6 million and $14.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003,  respectively.  The Company did not recognize any such tax benefits during
2002.

NOTE C.     Acquisitions

     Evergreen Merger. On September 28, 2004,  Pioneer completed its merger with
Evergreen with Pioneer being the surviving  corporation for accounting purposes.
The  transaction  was  accounted  for as a purchase of  Evergreen  by Pioneer in
accordance with SFAS 141. The merger with Evergreen was accomplished through the
issuance of 25.4 million  shares of Pioneer  common stock and $851.1  million of
cash paid, net of $12.1 million of acquired cash, to the Evergreen  shareholders
at closing. The value of each share of Pioneer was based on the five-day average
closing price of Pioneer's common stock surrounding the May 3, 2004 announcement
date  of  the  merger,  which  equaled  $32.578  per  share.  In  addition,   as
consideration  for Evergreen's  Kansas assets,  which were sold to a third party
for net proceeds of $20.9 million on September 27, 2004, Evergreen  stockholders
received an additional  cash payment  equal to $.48 per Evergreen  common share.
The cash consideration paid in the merger was financed through borrowings on the
Company's new $900 million 364-day senior  unsecured  revolving  credit facility
(the "364-Day Credit Agreement"). During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company
paid $29.3 million of  transaction  costs  associated  with the merger that were
accrued but unpaid on September 28, 2004.


                                       70

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The following  table  represents the allocation of the total purchase price
of Evergreen to the acquired assets and assumed  liabilities based upon the fair
values  assigned to each of the  significant  assets  acquired  and  liabilities
assumed.  The fair value of the  proved  properties  was based on the  Company's
estimate of the present value of the acquired  proved  reserves.  Likewise,  the
fair value of the  unproved  properties  was  estimated  by  risk-weighting  the
present value of the acquired probable  reserves.  Any future adjustments to the
allocation  of the  purchase  price are not  anticipated  to be  material to the
Company's financial statements.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                    (in thousands)
                                                                                    --------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>
    Fair value of Evergreen's net assets:
      Net working capital, including cash of $12.1 million......................     $   (44,956)
      Proved oil and gas properties.............................................       2,235,935
      Unproved oil and gas properties...........................................         274,917
      Other assets..............................................................          40,506
      Goodwill .................................................................         324,835
      Long-term debt............................................................        (305,500)
      Deferred income tax liabilities...........................................        (657,035)
      Other noncurrent liabilities, including minority interest in subsidiaries.         (33,320)
      Deferred compensation associated with unvested restricted stock awards....           6,001
      Additional paid-in capital (excess fair value of convertible debt attributable
        to equity conversion rights)............................................         (63,500)
                                                                                      ----------
                                                                                     $ 1,777,883
                                                                                      ==========
    Consideration paid for Evergreen's net assets:
      Pioneer common stock issued...............................................     $   826,514
      Cash consideration paid...................................................         863,193
                                                                                      ----------
      Aggregate purchase consideration issued to Evergreen stockholders.........       1,689,707
      Plus:
          Pioneer common stock issuable to holders of unvested restricted stock
            awards upon lapse of restrictions...................................           6,568
          Proceeds from the sale of Kansas properties to be paid to holders of
            unvested restricted stock awards upon lapse of restrictions.........              83
          Exchange of Evergreen employee stock options..........................          51,006
          Estimated direct merger costs incurred................................          30,519
                                                                                      ----------
            Total purchase price................................................     $ 1,777,883
                                                                                      ==========
</TABLE>

     Evergreen was a  publicly-traded  independent oil and gas company primarily
engaged in the  production,  development,  exploration  and acquisition of North
American unconventional gas. Evergreen was based in Denver, Colorado and was one
of the leading  developers  of coal bed methane  reserves in the United  States.
Evergreen's  operations were principally focused on developing and expanding its
coal  bed  methane  field  located  in the  Raton  Basin in  southern  Colorado.
Evergreen  also had operations in the Piceance  Basin in western  Colorado,  the
Uinta Basin in eastern Utah and the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin as a result
of Evergreen's acquisition of Carbon Energy Corporation on October 29, 2003 (the
"Carbon acquisition").

     The merger  with  Evergreen  provided  an  opportunity  for the  Company to
rebalance its portfolio of long-lived  foundation  assets by adding  Evergreen's
long-lived onshore producing asset base and significant low-risk development and
extension  drilling  opportunities.  Additionally,  the  Company's  decision  to
complete the merger was  positively  impacted by the  compatible  technical  and
corporate  cultures of Pioneer and Evergreen,  Evergreen's  substantial  acreage
position  in key  growth  basins  of the  United  States  Rockies  area  and the




                                       71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


opportunity to leverage Evergreen's  technical expertise in the area of coal bed
methane operations,  which management believes could have further application in
other areas of the United States.  These strategic  opportunities were among the
factors considered when the Company determined its offering price for Evergreen.

     Included  in working  capital  and other  assets in the table above is $6.4
million of intangible assets attributable to noncompete agreements executed with
three former  executive  officers of  Evergreen,  including  Mr. Mark Sexton,  a
director of the Company  since the merger and  formerly  Evergreen's  President,
Chief Executive  Officer and Chairman of the board of directors.  The noncompete
agreements  are being  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis as  charges  to the
Company's  net income  during the two-year  period  ending  September  28, 2006.
Additionally,  the Company  recorded $324.8 million of goodwill  associated with
the  Evergreen  merger,  which  amount  represents  the  excess of the  purchase
consideration  over the net fair value of the  identifiable net assets acquired.
Based on the  expected  strategic  benefits  of the  Evergreen  merger  that are
expected  to be  realized  on a reporting  unit  basis,  the  goodwill  has been
recorded as an asset of the Company's United States reporting unit. The goodwill
is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The fair values of the
monetary assets acquired and liabilities  assumed is being monitored  during the
twelve-month  period  ending  September  28,  2005 and will be adjusted if their
settlement  values differ from the estimated fair values  assigned to them as of
September  28,  2004.  Forthcoming  adjustments  of the fair values  assigned to
acquired  monetary assets and  liabilities,  if required,  will change the value
assigned to goodwill in the merger.

     The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial data for the
years  ended  December  31,  2004  and 2003  were  derived  from the  historical
financial  statements of Pioneer and Evergreen giving effect to the merger as if
the merger and the Carbon  acquisition had each occurred on January 1, 2003. The
unaudited pro forma  combined  condensed  financial  data have been included for
comparative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the results that
might have occurred had the  transactions  taken place as of the dates indicated
and are not intended to be a projection of future results.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                        Year ended December 31,
                                                                    -------------------------------
                                                                       2004                 2003
                                                                    -----------         -----------
                                                               (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                                 <C>                 <C>
     Revenues..................................................     $ 2,029,841         $ 1,547,752
                                                                     ==========          ==========
     Income before cumulative effect of change in
       accounting principle....................................     $   326,132         $   414,925
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
       net of tax..............................................             -                15,036
                                                                     ----------          ----------
     Net income................................................     $   326,132         $   429,961
                                                                     ==========          ==========
     Basic earnings per share:
       Income before cumulative effect of change
          in accounting principle..............................     $      2.26         $      2.91
       Cumulative effect of change in accounting
          principle, net of tax................................             -                   .11
                                                                     ----------          ----------
       Net income..............................................     $      2.26         $      3.02
                                                                     ==========          ==========
     Diluted earnings per share:
       Income before cumulative effect of change
          in accounting principle..............................     $      2.20         $      2.83
       Cumulative effect of change in accounting
          principle, net of tax................................             -                   .10
                                                                     ----------          ----------
       Net income..............................................     $      2.20         $      2.93
                                                                     ==========          ==========
</TABLE>


                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Falcon  acquisitions.  During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
purchased,  through two transactions,  an additional 30 percent working interest
in the Falcon field  development and a 25 percent working interest in associated
acreage in the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico for a combined  purchase price of $61.1
million.  As a result of these  transactions,  the  Company  owned a 75  percent
working  interest  in and  operated  the Falcon  field  development  and related
exploration  blocks at  December  31,  2002.  On March  28,  2003,  the  Company
purchased the remaining 25 percent working  interest that it did not already own
in the Falcon field,  the Harrier field and surrounding  satellite  prospects in
the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico for $120.4  million,  including  $114.1 million of
cash, $1.7 million of asset retirement  obligations  assumed and $4.6 million of
closing adjustments.

     West Panhandle  acquisitions.  During July 2002, the Company  completed the
purchase  of the  remaining  23 percent of the rights  that the  Company did not
already  own in its core area West  Panhandle  gas  field,  100  percent  of the
related West Panhandle  field  gathering  system and ten blocks  surrounding the
Company's  deepwater Gulf of Mexico Falcon  discovery.  In connection with these
transactions,  the  Company  recorded  $100.4  million  to  proved  oil  and gas
properties,  $3.8 million to unproved oil and gas properties and $1.9 million to
assets held for resale;  retired a capital cost  obligation  for $60.8  million;
settled  a  $20.9   million  gas   balancing   receivable;   assumed  trade  and
environmental  obligations amounting to $5.8 million in the aggregate;  and paid
$140.2 million of cash. The capital cost  obligation  retired by the Company for
$60.8 million  represented  an obligation  for West  Panhandle gas field capital
additions that was not able to be prepaid and bore interest at an annual rate of
20 percent. The portion of the purchase price allocated to the retirement of the
capital cost  obligation  was based on a discounted  cash flow analysis  using a
market  discount  rate for  obligations  with  similar  terms.  The capital cost
obligation had a carrying  value of $45.2 million,  resulting in a loss of $15.6
million from the early extinguishment of this obligation.

     Other acquisitions. During 2004, the Company spent $20.2 million to acquire
various  additional  working  interests in the Spraberry field. The Company also
spent $16.8 million to acquire  acreage in Alaska and $10.5 million in Canada to
acquire  producing  property and  undeveloped  acreage in southern  Alberta.  In
addition  to these  acquisitions,  the Company  spent  $43.2  million to acquire
producing properties in the United States and unproved properties in the Gulf of
Mexico,  Canada and Africa.  During  2003,  in addition  to the  incremental  25
percent  working  interest  acquired in the Falcon area, the Company spent $30.6
million to acquire  producing  properties  in the  Spraberry  field and unproved
properties in Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico, Argentina,  Canada and Tunisia. During
2002,  in addition  to the Falcon and West  Panhandle  acquisitions  referred to
above, the Company spent $25.5 million to acquire additional unproved acreage in
the United States,  including 34 Gulf of Mexico shelf blocks, six deepwater Gulf
of Mexico blocks,  a 70 percent working interest in ten state leases on Alaska's
North Slope and  property  interests in other areas of the United  States.  Also
during  2002,  the Company  acquired  unproved  and proved oil and gas  property
interests  in Canada for $2.3 million and $.5  million,  respectively,  and $1.8
million of additional unproved property interests in Tunisia.

NOTE D.     Exploratory Well Costs

     The  Company  capitalizes  exploratory  well costs until a decision is made
that the well has found proved  reserves or that it is  impaired,  in which case
the well costs are charged to expense.


                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The following  table reflects the Company's  capitalized  exploratory  well
activity during each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year ended December 31,
                                                             ---------------------------------------
                                                               2004           2003            2002
                                                             ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
     Beginning of year ...................................   $ 108,986      $  71,500      $  52,975
     Additions to exploratory well costs pending the
       determination of proved reserves...................     156,937        216,352         89,128
     Reclassifications to proved reserves.................     (56,639)      (117,966)       (34,072)
     Exploratory well costs charged to expense............     (82,812)       (60,900)       (36,531)
                                                              --------       --------       --------
     End of year .........................................   $ 126,472      $ 108,986      $  71,500
                                                              ========       ========       ========
</TABLE>

     The  following  table  provides an aging as of December 31, 2004,  2003 and
2002 of  capitalized  exploratory  well costs based on the date the drilling was
completed  and the  number of wells for which  exploratory  well costs have been
capitalized  for a period  greater than one year since the date the drilling was
completed:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           December 31,
                                                             ---------------------------------------
                                                                2004           2003           2002
                                                             ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                               (in thousands, except well counts)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
     Capitalized exploratory well costs that have been
       capitalized for a period of one year or less......    $  35,046      $  75,120      $  46,020
     Capitalized exploratory well costs that have been
       capitalized for a period greater than one year....       91,426         33,866         25,480
                                                              --------       --------       --------
                                                             $ 126,472      $ 108,986      $  71,500
                                                              ========       ========       ========
     Number of wells that have exploratory well costs
       that have been capitalized for a period greater
       than one year.....................................           10              3              4
                                                              ========        =======       ========
</TABLE>

       The following table provides the capitalized exploratory well costs of
significant discrete exploration prospects that have been suspended for more
than one year as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          December 31,
                                                             ---------------------------------------
                                                               2004           2003            2002
                                                             ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
     United States:
       Ozona Deep........................................    $  19,462      $  19,003      $     -
       Alaska - Oooguruk.................................       47,083            -              -

     Canada:
       Other.............................................        1,214            -              238

     Africa:
       South African gas project.........................       14,895         14,863         14,790
       Tunisia - Anaguid.................................        8,772            -              -
       Gabon.............................................          -              -           10,452
                                                              --------       --------       --------
       Total.............................................    $  91,426      $  33,866      $  25,480
                                                              ========       ========       ========
</TABLE>

                                       74

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The Company's Ozona Deep exploration well was drilled during 2002 and found
quantities of oil believed to be commercial;  however, given its location in the
Gulf of Mexico, it is necessary to have a signed production  handling  agreement
("PHA") with infrastructure in the area to insure the economics  associated with
the  discovery  prior to  doing  further  appraisal  drilling.  Pioneer  and the
operator of Ozona Deep have been diligently engaging potential counterparties to
enter  into a PHA to  bring  future  production  from  the  discovery  to  their
platform.  The Company anticipates entering into a PHA and drilling an appraisal
well during 2005.

     During  2003,  the  Company's   Alaskan  Oooguruk   discovery  wells  found
quantities of oil believed to be commercial.  In 2003, the Company began farm-in
discussions with the owner of undeveloped  discoveries in adjacent acreage given
its proximity and the potential  costs benefits of a larger scale  project.  The
farm-in was completed during 2004. Along with completing the farm-in  agreement,
Pioneer  obtained  access to  exploration  well and seismic  data to help better
understand the potential of the discoveries  without having to drill  additional
wells. In late 2004, the Company  completed an extensive  technical and economic
evaluation of the resource potential within this area and authorized a front-end
engineering and design study ("FEED study") for the area which is expected to be
completed in 2005. If the FEED study confirms favorable  development  economics,
the  Company  will seek to obtain  regulatory  approval  to develop the field in
2006, targeting first oil sales in 2008. Simultaneously,  the Company is working
to  secure  throughput  agreements  to  process  the  associated  potential  oil
production at a nearby facility should the project be sanctioned.

     During 2001,  the Company  drilled two South African  discovery  wells that
found  quantities of condensate and gas believed to be commercial.  During 2004,
2003  and  2002,  the  Company  actively  reviewed  the gas  supply  and  demand
fundamentals in South Africa and had discussions with a gas-to-liquids  plant in
the area to purchase  the  condensate  and gas.  During  2004,  a FEED study was
authorized for the gas development and infrastructure design. The FEED study was
completed  in early  2005 and  based  on that  study,  the  plant  operator  has
initiated  purchase  orders  for  long-lead  time   infrastructure   components.
Currently,  negotiations are underway to secure a production  contract and it is
the Company's expectation that the project will be sanctioned in 2005.

     During 2003, the Company drilled two exploration wells on its Anaguid Block
in  Tunisia  which  found  quantities  of  condensate  and  gas  believed  to be
commercial.  During  2004,  the wells were  scheduled  and approved for extended
production tests.  However, the project operator delayed the extended production
tests due to issues  unrelated  to the  Company  or the  project.  In 2005,  the
project operator, along with the Company, has approved extended production tests
of the existing wells and the drilling of two additional appraisal wells.


                                       75

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


NOTE E.    Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values
of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------------------------
                                                                 2004                       2003
                                                        -----------------------    -----------------------
                                                         Carrying      Fair        Carrying       Fair
                                                           Value       Value         Value        Value
                                                        ----------   ----------    ----------   ----------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                     <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Derivative contract liabilities:
     Commodity price hedges.........................    $ (406,546)  $ (406,546)   $ (201,422)  $ (201,422)
     Unrealized terminated commodity price hedges...    $     (660)  $     (660)   $   (1,490)  $   (1,490)
     Btu swap contracts.............................    $      -     $      -      $   (6,855)  $   (6,855)
Financial assets:
     Trading securities.............................    $   11,115   $   11,115    $    7,596   $    7,596
     5-1/2% note receivable due 2008................    $    1,786   $    1,786    $    2,086   $    2,086
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
     Lines of credit................................    $ (828,000)  $ (828,000)   $ (160,000)  $ (160,000)
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005...................    $ (131,762)  $ (133,078)   $ (135,239)  $ (141,426)
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007...................    $  (32,520)  $  (35,465)   $ (155,253)  $ (171,188)
     6-1/2% senior notes due 2008...................    $ (350,326)  $ (374,500)   $ (354,497)  $ (378,725)
     9-5/8% senior notes due 2010...................    $  (62,973)  $  (78,672)   $ (350,558)  $ (424,385)
     5-7/8% senior notes due 2012...................    $ (199,687)  $ (203,198)   $      -     $      -
     7-1/2% senior notes due 2012...................    $  (15,157)  $  (18,621)   $ (150,000)  $ (162,990)
     5-7/8% senior notes due 2016...................    $ (415,609)  $ (549,478)   $      -     $      -
     4-3/4% senior convertible notes due 2021 (a)...    $ (100,000)  $ (165,598)   $      -     $      -
     7-1/5% senior notes due 2028...................    $ (249,916)  $ (287,500)   $ (249,914)  $ (270,312)
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  Carrying  value  excludes  $63.5 million which was recognized in additional
     paid-in capital in conjunction with the Evergreen merger for the fair value
     of the convertible debt attributable to the equity conversion  rights.  See
     Note C for information regarding the Evergreen merger.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other  current  assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

     Commodity price swap and collar contracts,  interest rate swaps and foreign
currency  swap  contracts.  The fair  value of  commodity  price swap and collar
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are estimated from
quotes  provided  by  the  counterparties  to  these  derivative  contracts  and
represent the estimated  amounts that the Company would expect to receive or pay
to settle the  derivative  contracts.  See Note K for a  description  of each of
these derivatives, including whether the derivative contract qualifies for hedge
accounting treatment or is considered a speculative derivative contract.

     Financial   assets.   The  carrying  amounts  of  the  trading   securities
approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments. The fair
value of the 5-1/2  percent note  receivable  due 2008 was  determined  based on
underlying  market  rates of  interest.  The current  portion of the 5-1/2% note
receivable due 2008,  amounting to $.4 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
is  included  in other  current  assets in the  Company's  Consolidated  Balance
Sheets.  The trading  securities and the noncurrent  portions of the 5-1/2% note
receivable  due 2008 are included in other assets in the Company's  Consolidated
Balance Sheets.


                                       76

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     Long-term  debt. The carrying  amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's  corporate  credit  facility  approximates  fair value  because  these
instruments  bear interest at variable market rates.  The fair values of each of
the senior note issuances were determined based on quoted market prices for each
of the issues.  See Note F for  additional  information  regarding the Company's
long-term debt.

NOTE F.        Long-term Debt

     Long-term  debt,  including  the effects of net deferred  fair value hedges
gains (losses) and issuance  discounts and premiums,  consisted of the following
components at December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31,
                                                            ---------------------------
                                                               2004             2003
                                                            ----------      -----------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                         <C>             <C>
Outstanding debt principal balances:
    Lines of credit.....................................    $  828,000      $  160,000
    8-7/8% senior notes due 2005........................       130,950         130,950
    8-1/4% senior notes due 2007........................        32,075         150,000
    6-1/2% senior notes due 2008........................       350,000         350,000
    9-5/8% senior notes due 2010........................        64,044         339,169
    5-7/8% senior notes due 2012........................       194,485             -
    7-1/2% senior notes due 2012........................        16,175         150,000
    5-7/8% senior notes due 2016........................       526,875             -
    4-3/4% senior convertible notes due 2021............       100,000             -
    7-1/5% senior notes due 2028........................       250,000         250,000
                                                             ---------       ---------
                                                             2,492,604       1,530,119
Issuance discounts and premiums, net....................      (103,170)         (2,033)
Net deferred fair value hedge gains (losses)............        (3,484)         27,375
                                                             ---------       ---------
     Total long-term debt...............................    $2,385,950      $1,555,461
                                                             =========       =========
</TABLE>

     Principal  maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2004 are as follows
(in thousands):
<TABLE>
<S>          <C>                                            <C>

             2005.......................................    $  130,950
             2006.......................................    $  800,000
             2007.......................................    $   32,075
             2008.......................................    $  378,000
             2009.......................................    $      -
             Thereafter.................................    $1,151,579
</TABLE>

     During the year ending  December  31, 2005,  $131 million of the  Company's
8-7/8%  senior  notes due 2005 (the  "8-7/8  Notes")  will  mature and the first
anniversary of the Company's  364-Day Credit  Agreement will occur.  The Company
intends to initially utilize unused borrowing  capacity under its 364-Day Credit
Agreement to repay the 8-7/8% Notes and to transfer outstanding  borrowings,  if
any, under the 364-Day  Credit  Agreement to the Company's  five-year  unsecured
revolving  credit  agreement  (the  "Revolving  Credit  Agreement") on its first
anniversary.  As a result of the  Evergreen  merger,  the $100 million of 4 3/4%
senior  convertible notes due 2021 (the  "Convertible  Notes") are redeemable at
any time at the option of the holders.  If the holders of the Convertible  Notes
do not redeem the  Convertible  Notes prior to December  20,  2006,  the Company
intends to exercise its rights under the  indenture  and redeem the  Convertible
Notes on such date for  cash,  common  stock or a  combination  thereof.  If the
holders exercise their rights to redeem the Convertible  Notes prior to December
20, 2006, the Company intends to refinance the cash redemption costs with unused
borrowing  capacity under the Revolving Credit Agreement.  The Convertible Notes
are reflected in "Thereafter" in the above maturities  table.  Accordingly,  the
Company has classified  these debt  obligations as long-term in its Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004.


                                       77

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Lines of credit.  In December 2003, the Company  entered into the Revolving
Credit  Agreement,  as amended,  that matures in December 2008. The terms of the
Revolving  Credit  Agreement  provide for initial  aggregate loan commitments of
$700  million  from  a  syndication  of  participating  banks  (the  "Lenders").
Aggregate loan commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement may be increased
to a maximum  aggregate  amount of $1 billion if the Lenders increase their loan
commitments or if loan  commitments of new financial  institutions  are added to
the Revolving  Credit  Agreement.  During June 2004, the Company  entered into a
first amendment (the "First Amendment") to its Revolving Credit Agreement.  As a
result  of  the  First  Amendment,   Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc.,  a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Pioneer USA"), is no longer a guarantor
of the  Revolving  Credit  Agreement.  Borrowings  under  the  Revolving  Credit
Agreement may be in the form of revolving  loans or swing line loans.  Aggregate
outstanding  swing line loans may not exceed $80 million.  Revolving  loans bear
interest,  at the option of the Company,  based on (a) a rate per annum equal to
the higher of the prime rate  announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank
(5.25  percent per annum at December 31,  2004) or the  weighted  average of the
rates on  overnight  Federal  funds  transactions  with  members of the  Federal
Reserve System during the last preceding  business day plus 50 basis point (2.47
percent  per  annum  at  December  31,  2004)  or  (b) a base  Eurodollar  rate,
substantially equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") (2.34 percent
per annum at December  31,  2004),  plus a margin that is based on a grid of the
Company's  debt rating (100 basis points per annum at December 31, 2004).  Swing
line loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the "ASK" rate for Federal
funds periodically  published by the Dow Jones Market Service.  The Company pays
commitment  fees on the undrawn  amounts  under the Revolving  Credit  Agreement
based on a grid of the Company's  debt rating (.25 percent per annum at December
31, 2004).  As of December 31, 2004, the Company had $28 million  borrowed under
the Revolving Credit Agreement.

     In September 2004, the Company  entered into the 364-Day Credit  Agreement,
as amended,  that provided for initial loan  commitments  of $900  million.  The
364-Day  Credit  Agreement  was  utilized  to  finance  the  Evergreen   merger.
Borrowings under the 364-Day Credit Agreement may, at the option of the Company,
be designated to bear interest based on (a) a rate per annum equal to the higher
of the prime  rate  announced  from time to time by  JPMorgan  Chase Bank or the
weighted  average of the rates on  overnight  Federal  funds  transactions  with
members of the Federal  Reserve  System during the last  preceding  business day
plus 50 basis  points  or (b) a base  Eurodollar  rate,  substantially  equal to
LIBOR,  plus a margin that is based on a grid of the  Company's  debt rating (75
basis points per annum at December 31, 2004).  The Company pays  commitment fees
on the undrawn  amounts under the 364-Day Credit  Agreement based on grid of the
Company's  debt rating  (.25  percent per annum at  December  31,  2004).  As of
December 31, 2004, the Company had $800 million  revolving loans  outstanding on
the 364-Day Credit Agreement.

     The Revolving Credit  Agreement and 364-Day Credit Agreement  (collectively
the "Lines of Credit") share similar  restrictive  covenants.  Those restrictive
covenants  include the  maintenance of a ratio of the Company's  earnings before
gain or loss on the  disposition  of assets,  interest  expense,  income  taxes,
depreciation,  depletion and amortization expense,  exploration and abandonments
expense and other noncash charges and expenses to consolidated  interest expense
of at  least  3.5  to  1.0;  maintenance  of a  ratio  of  total  debt  to  book
capitalization  less  intangible  assets  (other  than  intangible  oil  and gas
assets),  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income and  certain  noncash  asset
write-downs  not to exceed .60 to 1.0;  and if the Company  should fall below an
investment grade rating, maintenance of an annual ratio of the net present value
of the Company's oil and gas  properties to total debt of at least 1.25 to 1.00.
The Company was in compliance  with all of its debt covenants as of December 31,
2004.

     As of December 31, 2004,  the Company had $57.1 million of undrawn  letters
of credit,  of which $49.3 million were undrawn  commitments  under the Lines of
Credit.  The letters of credit  outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement
are subject to a per annum fee,  based on a grid of the  Company's  debt rating,
representing  the Company's LIBOR margin (100 basis points at December 31, 2004)
plus .125  percent.  As of December 31, 2004,  the Company had unused  borrowing
capacity of $722.7 million under the Lines of Credit.  During February 2005, the
Company  requested a $250 million  reduction in the loan  commitments  under the
364-Day Credit Agreement to $650 million.



                                       78

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     In January 2005, the Company  amended the Lines of Credit  primarily to (i)
provide for the Company's  ability to enter into volumetric  production  payment
agreements and (ii) to clarify certain definitional matters.

     Senior notes. The Company's senior notes are general unsecured  obligations
ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness
of the  Company  and are senior in right of payment to all  existing  and future
subordinated  indebtedness of the Company. The Company is a holding company that
conducts all of its operations through  subsidiaries;  consequently,  the senior
notes are  structurally  subordinated  to all  obligations of its  subsidiaries.
Interest on the Company's senior notes is payable  semiannually.  The indentures
of the Company's  senior notes provide for subsidiary  guarantees  equivalent to
any such guarantees provided under the Revolving Credit Agreement.  Accordingly,
the First  Amendment also had the effect of removing  Pioneer USA as a guarantor
of the Company's senior notes.

     On July 15, 2004, the Company  accepted tenders to exchange $117.9 million,
$275.1 million and $133.8 million in principal amount of its 8 1/4% senior notes
due 2007  (the "8 1/4%  Notes"),  9-5/8%  senior  notes  due 2010  (the "9- 5/8%
Notes") and 7.50% senior notes due 2012 (the "7.50% Notes" and collectively with
the 8 1/4% Notes and the 9- 5/8% Notes,  the "Old Notes"),  respectively,  for a
like principal  amount of a new series of 5.875% senior notes due 2016 (the "New
Notes")  and cash.  The  aggregate  exchange  price  paid to the  holders of the
tendered notes exceeded their  aggregate  principal  balances by $109.0 million,
which amount was paid in cash to holders of the New Notes.  In  accordance  with
EITF  Abstract  Issue No.  96-19,  "Debtors  Accounting  for a  Modification  or
Exchange of Debt Instruments",  this amount is being amortized as an increase to
the  Company's  interest  expense over the term of the New Notes.  In connection
with the tenders of the 9-5/8% Notes and the 7.50% Notes,  the Company  received
consents  which   permanently   removed   substantially  all  of  the  operating
restrictions  with respect to those notes once certain  investment grade ratings
were  achieved.  Associated  with the  tenders to  exchange  the Old Notes,  the
Company incurred direct  transaction costs of $2.2 million during the year ended
December  31,  2004,  which were  recorded  as  charges to other  expense in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     Interest on the New Notes is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15
of each year,  commencing  January 15,  2005.  The New Notes are  governed by an
indenture  between the Company and The Bank of New York dated  January 13, 1998.
The New Notes are general  unsecured  obligations of the Company ranking equally
in right of payment with all other senior unsecured  indebtedness of the Company
and are  senior in right of  payment to all  existing  and  future  subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

     In connection with the Evergreen  merger,  the Company assumed the position
of Evergreen as the issuer of the  Convertible  Notes and $200 million of 5.875%
Senior  Subordinated  Notes due 2012 (the "EVG 5.875% Notes").  In addition to a
4.75  percent  fixed  annual  rate of  interest,  the Company is required to pay
contingent  interest  to the  holders  of the  Convertible  Notes.  The  rate of
contingent  interest  payable  in  respect to any  six-month  period  equals the
greater of (i) a per annum rate equal to five percent of the Company's estimated
per  annum  borrowing  rate for  senior  nonconvertible  fixed-rate  debt with a
maturity date comparable to the Convertible Notes or (ii) .30 percent per annum.
In no event may the contingent  interest rate exceed .40 percent per annum.  The
Company is accruing  contingent interest on the Convertible Notes at the rate of
..30 per annum.

     The  Convertible  Notes are due on December 15, 2021 but are  redeemable at
either the Company's  option or the holder's option on other specified dates. As
a result of the Evergreen  merger,  the Convertible Notes are convertible at any
time by the holders as discussed in the  following  paragraph.  Holders may also
require  the  Company  to  repurchase  all or part of the  Convertible  Notes on
December 20, 2006,  December 15, 2011 or December 15, 2016 at a repurchase price
of 100 percent of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes plus accrued and
unpaid  interest  (including  contingent  interest).  On December 20, 2006,  the
Company may redeem the Convertible Notes in whole or in part in cash,  in shares



                                       79

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


of common stock, or in any combination of cash and common stock. On December 15,
2011 or December 15, 2016,  the Company must pay the  repurchase  price in cash.
The Company,  currently,  intends to exercise its rights under the indenture and
redeem the Convertible Notes on December 20, 2006, if the Convertible Notes have
not been redeemed by the holders.

     Each $25.00 principal  balance  outstanding  under the Convertible Notes is
convertible  into .58175  shares of the  Company's  common stock plus $19.98 per
share, which includes Evergreen Kansas properties proceeds (as an example,  each
$1,000 of  Convertible  Notes  principal  would exchange for 23.27 shares of the
Company's common stock plus $799 of cash). The portion of the Convertible  Notes
exchangeable  into the Company's  common stock is included in the computation of
the Company's average diluted shares outstanding.

     The EVG 5.875% Notes assumed in the  Evergreen  merger are due on March 15,
2012 with interest  payable on March 15 and  September 15 of each year.  The EVG
5.875% Notes were unsecured senior subordinated indebtedness,  were subordinated
in  right  of  payment  to all of  the  Company's  existing  and  future  senior
indebtedness,  and ranked  equally in right of payment with all of the Company's
future senior unsecured subordinated indebtedness.  Prior to March 15, 2007, the
Company may redeem up to 35 percent of the original  principal amount of the EVG
5.875%  Notes with the net cash  proceeds of one or more equity  offerings  at a
redemption  price of 105.875  percent of the principal  amount of the EVG 5.875%
Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after March 15, 2008, the Company
may redeem all or a portion of the EVG 5.875% Notes at redemption prices ranging
from 102.938 percent to 100 percent of the principal  amount, as provided by the
indenture for the EVG 5.875% Notes. The EVG 5.875% Notes also contain provisions
for  redemption at the holders'  option upon the  occurrence  of certain  future
events,  including  a change in  control.  During  October  2004,  the  Company,
pursuant to the  indenture  for the EVG 5.875%  Notes,  commenced  an offer,  in
connection  with the  change of  control of  Evergreen  (the  "Change of Control
Offer"), to repurchase any or all of the EVG 5.875% Notes at a purchase price in
cash equal to 101 percent of the principal amount of the EVG 5.875% Notes,  plus
accrued and unpaid interest. The Change of Control Offer expired on November 10,
2004.  In  addition  to the Change of Control  Offer,  during  October  2004 the
Company  solicited  consents  to  proposed  amendments  to the EVG 5.875%  Notes
indenture to:

       o      eliminate the  subordination  of the  right of  payment on the EVG
              5.875% Notes to the  payment  in full  of all  existing and future
              senior indebtedness of Pioneer;

       o      amend restrictive  covenants applicable to the EVG 5.875% Notes so
              that they  are  the same  as  the  restrictive  covenants  in  the
              Company's senior notes  that were originally  issued as high-yield
              notes; and

       o      amend the  provisions  of the  EVG 5.875%  Notes  that suspend the
              restrictive  covenants  when the  EVG 5.875%  Notes  have  certain
              investment grade ratings so that those provisions  are the same as
              the suspension and  permanent-elimination  provisions in Pioneer's
              senior notes that were originally issued as high-yield notes.

Holders of a majority in  outstanding  principal  amount of the EVG 5.875% Notes
approved  the proposed  amendments  on October 29,  2004.  As a result,  the EVG
5.875% Notes are no longer subordinated.

     As of December 31, 2004,  the  aggregate  carrying  value of the  Company's
senior notes was net of $3.5 million of  unamortized  net deferred  hedge losses
realized from terminated  fair value hedge interest rate swap  contracts.  As of
December 31, 2003, the aggregate  carrying  value of the Company's  senior notes
included $27.4 million of incremental carrying value attributable to unamortized
net  deferred  hedge  gains.  See Note K for  additional  information  regarding
terminated fair value hedge interest rate swap contracts.



                                       80

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Early  extinguishment  of debt and capital cost obligation.  In conjunction
with the Change of Control Offer,  the Company  repurchased  $5.5 million of the
EVG 5.875% Notes during 2004. The Company recognized $.1 million of other income
associated with these debt extinguishments.

     During 2003,  the Company  repurchased  $5.1  million of its 8-7/8  percent
senior  notes and repaid  its former  revolving  credit  agreement  prior to its
scheduled  maturity.  The Company  recognized  $1.5  million of charges to other
expense associated with these debt extinguishments.

     During 2002,  the Company  repurchased  $47.1  million of the 9-5/8% Notes,
$13.9  million of the 8-7/8  percent  senior  notes and  repaid a $45.2  million
capital cost  obligation.  The Company  recognized a charge to other  expense of
$22.3 million associated with these debt extinguishments.

     Interest  expense.  The following amounts have been incurred and charged to
interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     ---------------------------------------
                                                                       2004           2003            2002
                                                                     ---------      ---------      ---------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>            <C>            <C>
     Cash payments for interest...................................   $ 110,135      $ 117,870      $ 113,827
     Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans.....       3,683          2,873          5,488
     Amortization of net deferred hedge gains (see Note K)........     (19,220)       (26,114)       (14,108)
     Amortization of capitalized loan fees........................       2,059          2,528          2,436
     Kansas ad valorem tax (see Note J)...........................          65            103            375
     Argentina accrued tax liability..............................       1,205            -              -
     Net change in accruals.......................................       7,476           (424)            48
                                                                      --------       --------       --------
       Interest incurred..........................................     105,403         96,836        108,066
       Less capitalized interest..................................      (2,016)        (5,448)       (12,251)
                                                                      --------       --------       --------
          Total interest expense..................................   $ 103,387      $  91,388      $  95,815
                                                                      ========       ========       ========
</TABLE>

NOTE G.     Related Party Transactions

     Activities   with   affiliated   partnerships.   The  Company,   through  a
wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as operator of  properties in which it and its
affiliated  partnerships  have an interest.  Accordingly,  the Company  receives
producing  well  overhead,  drilling well overhead and other fees related to the
operation of the  properties.  The  affiliated  partnerships  also reimburse the
Company  for  their  allocated  share of  general  and  administrative  charges.
Reimbursements of fees are recorded as reductions to general and  administrative
expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     The  activities  with  affiliated   partnerships  are  summarized  for  the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                                       --------------------------
                                                                        2004      2003      2002
                                                                       ------    ------    ------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>
     Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges in
        accordance with standard industry operating agreements.....    $1,458    $1,473    $1,495
     Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses..........    $  193    $  148    $  127
</TABLE>



                                       81

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



NOTE H.     Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

     Deferred  compensation  retirement  plan. In August 1997, the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement
plan for the officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and
key employee is allowed to  contribute up to 25 percent of their base salary and
100  percent  of their  annual  bonus.  The  Company  will  provide  a  matching
contribution  of 100 percent of the  officer's and key  employee's  contribution
limited to the first 10 percent of the  officer's  base salary and eight percent
of the key employee's base salary.  The Company's  matching  contribution  vests
immediately.  A trust fund has been established by the Company to accumulate the
contributions   made  under  this  retirement   plan.  The  Company's   matching
contributions were $.9 million,  $.9 million and $.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     401(k) plan. The Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA, Inc.  401(k) and Matching
Plan (the "401(k) Plan") is a defined  contribution  plan established  under the
Internal  Revenue  Code Section 401. The 401(k) Plan was formed by the merger of
the Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan and the Pioneer  Natural
Resources USA, Inc.  Matching Plan on January 1, 2002. All regular full-time and
part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k)
Plan on the first day of the month  following  their date of hire.  Participants
may  contribute  an amount of not less than two percent nor more than 30 percent
of their annual salary into the 401(k) Plan. Matching  contributions are made to
the 401(k)  Plan in cash by Pioneer  USA in  amounts  equal to 200  percent of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each  participant's  account is credited with the  participant's  contributions,
their Matching  Contributions  and  allocations  of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.
Participants  are fully  vested in their  account  balances  except for Matching
Contributions and their proportionate share of 401(k) Plan earnings attributable
to Matching  Contributions,  which  proportionately vest over a four-year period
that begins with the participant's date of hire. During the years ended December
31, 2004,  2003 and 2002, the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $5.4
million,  $4.5 million and $4.1 million,  respectively,  as a result of Matching
Contributions.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

     In August 1997, the Company's  stockholders  approved a Long-Term Incentive
Plan which  provides for the  granting of incentive  awards in the form of stock
options,  stock appreciation  rights,  performance units and restricted stock to
directors,  officers and employees of the Company.  The Long-Term Incentive Plan
provides for the issuance of a maximum number of shares of common stock equal to
10 percent of the total number of shares of common stock equivalents outstanding
less the total number of shares of common stock  subject to  outstanding  awards
under any stock-  based plan for the  directors,  officers or  employees  of the
Company.


                                       82

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The following  table  calculates the number of shares or options  available
for grant under the Company's  Long- Term Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2004
and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 December 31,
                                                                          --------------------------
                                                                             2004            2003
                                                                          -----------    -----------
<S>                                                                       <C>            <C>
  Shares outstanding, net of treasury stock.............................  144,831,662    119,287,772
  Outstanding awards exercisable or exercisable within 60 days..........    4,526,415      3,279,024
                                                                          -----------    -----------
                                                                          149,358,077    122,566,796
  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.....   14,935,808     12,256,680
  Less:  Outstanding awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan..........   (4,790,028)    (5,534,037)
         Outstanding awards under predecessor incentive plans...........   (1,838,543)      (417,052)
                                                                          -----------    -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant.............................    8,307,237      6,305,591
                                                                          ===========    ===========
</TABLE>

     Stock option  awards.  Prior to 2004, the Company had a program of awarding
semiannual  stock  options  to  its  employees.   The  Company  also  gives  its
non-employee  directors a choice to receive (i) 100  percent  restricted  stock,
(ii) 100 percent stock options, (iii) 100 percent cash, or (iv) a combination of
50/50 of any two, as their annual compensation.  This program provides for stock
option  awards at an exercise  price  based upon the closing  sales price of the
Company's  common  stock on the day  prior to the date of  grant.  Stock  option
awards  vest over an  18-month or  three-year  schedule  and provide a five-year
exercise period from each vesting date.  Non-employee  directors'  stock options
vest  quarterly  and provide for a five-year  exercise  period from each vesting
date. The Company  granted  1,353,988 and 1,643,212  options under the Long-Term
Incentive Plan during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     In accordance with the Merger Agreement, on September 28, 2004, the Company
assumed  fully-vested  options to  purchase  2,384,657  shares of the  Company's
common stock at various exercise prices, the weighted average price per share of
which was $11.18.  The assumed  options  were  outstanding  awards to  Evergreen
employees when the Evergreen merger occurred.

     During 2004, the Company's stock-based  compensation philosophy shifted its
emphasis from the awarding of stock options to  restricted  stock awards.  There
were no options granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan during the year ended
December 31, 2004.

     Restricted  stock  awards.  During the year ended  December 31,  2004,  the
Company  assumed  214,186  restricted  stock  units in  exchange  for  Evergreen
restricted  stock units  outstanding  on September  28, 2004 and issued  630,937
restricted  shares of the Company's  common stock as  compensation to directors,
officers and employees of the Company.

     The  Company  recorded  $6.0  million of deferred  compensation  for future
expected  service  associated with certain of the restricted stock units assumed
from  Evergreen.  The  deferred  compensation  is being  amortized as charges to
compensation  expense  over the periods in which the  restrictions  on the units
lapse.

     During the years  ended  December  31, 2003 and 2002,  the  Company  issued
77,625  and  654,445   restricted   shares  of  the   Company's   common  stock,
respectively.  The  restricted  share  awards  were  issued as  compensation  to
directors, officers and key employees of the Company.



                                       83

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The Company  recorded  $19.1  million,  $1.1  million and $16.2  million of
deferred   compensation   associated  with   restricted   stock  awards  in  the
stockholders'  equity section during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively.  Such amounts will be amortized to compensation expense over
the vesting  periods of the awards.  During the years ended  December  31, 2004,
2003 and 2002,  amortization of restricted  stock awards increased the Company's
compensation   expense  by  $12.5  million,   $5.4  million  and  $1.9  million,
respectively.

     The following table reflects the outstanding  restricted stock awards as of
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and activity related thereto for the years then
ended:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                      -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               2004                  2003                  2002
                                      ---------------------   --------------------   --------------------
                                                   Weighted               Weighted               Weighted
                                       Number      Average     Number     Average     Number     Average
                                      of Shares     Price     of Shares    Price     of Shares    Price
                                      ---------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Restricted stock awards:
   Outstanding at beginning
     of year......................      676,973    $ 24.79      652,793    $ 24.72        -      $   -
   Evergreen awards assumed.......      214,186    $ 32.58          -      $   -          -      $   -
   Shares granted.................      630,937    $ 31.29       77,625    $ 25.39    654,445    $ 24.72
   Shares forfeited...............      (32,174)   $ 30.99      (36,500)   $ 24.72        -      $   -
   Lapse of restrictions..........      (41,935)   $ 33.03      (16,945)   $ 25.59     (1,652)   $ 24.60
                                      ---------               ---------              --------
   Outstanding at end of year.....    1,447,987    $ 28.46      676,973    $ 24.79    652,793    $ 24.72
                                      =========               =========              ========
</TABLE>

     A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002, and changes during the years then ended, are presented below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                      ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               2004                   2003                   2002
                                      ----------------------  ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                   Weighted                Weighted                Weighted
                                       Number      Average     Number      Average     Number      Average
                                      of Shares     Price     of Shares     Price     of Shares    P rice
                                      ---------   ---------   ----------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding at beginning
   of year........................     5,274,116   $  20.13    7,268,292   $  19.60    6,926,071   $  18.16
    Evergreen options assumed.....     2,384,657   $  11.18          -     $    -            -     $    -
    Options granted...............           -     $    -      1,353,988   $  24.84    1,643,212   $  21.14
    Options forfeited.............      (102,890)  $  22.24   (1,286,370)  $  29.22     (154,717)  $  26.27
    Options exercised.............    (2,375,299)  $  14.39   (2,061,794)  $  15.68   (1,146,274)  $  12.19
                                      ----------              ----------              ----------
  Outstanding at end of year......     5,180,584   $  18.60    5,274,116   $  20.13    7,268,292   $  19.60
                                      ==========              ==========              ==========
  Exercisable at end of year......     3,970,996   $  17.08    2,581,256   $  17.56    4,269,659   $  20.15
                                      ==========              ==========              ==========
Weighted average fair value
  of options granted during
  the year.......................     $     - (a)             $     8.95              $     8.87
                                       =========               =========               =========
<FN>
- -----------
(a)  The Company did not grant any stock options  under the Long-Term  Incentive
     Plan during the year ended December 31, 2004. The assumed Evergreen options
     were valued at $32.578 per share.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       84

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The  following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock
options outstanding and options exercisable at December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Options Outstanding                            Options Exercisable
                   --------------------------------------------------------    -----------------------------------
                        Number           Weighted Average       Weighted            Number            Weighted
   Range of         Outstanding at          Remaining           Average          Exercisable at       Average
Exercise Prices    December 31, 2004     Contractual Life    Exercise Price    December 31, 2004    Exercise Price
- ---------------    -----------------    -----------------    --------------    -----------------    --------------
<S> <C>            <C>                  <C>                  <C>               <C>                  <C>
    $  5-11              923,207            2.4 years           $  8.62               923,207          $   8.62
    $ 12-18            2,051,553            3.6 years           $ 16.71             1,810,616          $  16.50
    $ 19-26            2,070,455            4.3 years           $ 24.11             1,101,804          $  23.42
    $ 27-30              104,657            1.7 years           $ 28.44               104,657          $  28.44
    $ 31-43               30,712            2.1 years           $ 40.06                30,712          $  40.06
                      ----------                                                   ----------
                       5,180,584                                                    3,970,996
                      ==========                                                   ==========
</TABLE>

     SFAS  123   disclosures.   The   Company   applies   APB  25  and   related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the  Company's  net income and earnings per share would have been
less than the reported  amounts.  See Note B for a comparison  of net income and
net income per share as reported  and as adjusted  for the pro forma  effects of
determining compensation expense in accordance with SFAS 123.

     Under SFAS 123,  the fair value of each stock  option grant is estimated on
the date of grant using the Black- Scholes option pricing model. The Company did
not grant any stock options during the year ended December 31, 2004.

     The following weighted average  assumptions were used to estimate the value
of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                      --------------------------
                                                         2003          2002
                                                      -----------   ------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>
             Risk-free interest rate...............       3.06%         2.80%
             Expected life.........................     5 years       5 years
             Expected volatility...................         36%           45%
             Expected dividend yield...............        -             -
</TABLE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     As discussed  above in Note B, the Company has an ESPP that allows eligible
employees to annually purchase the Company's common stock at a discounted price.
Officers  of  the  Company  are  not  eligible  to   participate  in  the  ESPP.
Contributions  to the  ESPP are  limited  to 15  percent  of an  employee's  pay
(subject  to certain  ESPP  limits)  during  the nine-  month  offering  period.
Participants in the ESPP purchase the Company's  common stock at a price that is
15 percent below the closing sales price of the Company's common stock on either
the first day or the last day of each offering period,  whichever  closing sales
price is lower.

Postretirement Benefit Obligations

     As of December 31, 2004 and 2003,  the Company had recorded  $15.5  million
and $15.6 million,  respectively, of unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit
obligations,  the current and noncurrent portions of which are included in other
current liabilities and other liabilities and minority interests,  respectively,
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. These obligations are comprised
of five  plans of  which four  relate to  predecessor entities  that the Company



                                       85

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


acquired in prior  years.  These plans had no assets as of December  31, 2004 or
2003. Other than the Company's  retirement plan, the participants of these plans
are not current employees of the Company.

     The  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligations  pertaining to these
plans were determined by independent actuaries for four plans representing $11.4
million  of  unfunded  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligations  as  of
December 31, 2004 and by the Company for one plan  representing  $4.1 million of
unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligations as of December 31, 2004.
Interest  costs at an annual  rate of six percent of the  periodic  undiscounted
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations were employed in the valuations
of the benefit  obligations.  Certain of the  aforementioned  plans  provide for
medical and dental cost  subsidies for plan  participants.  Annual  medical cost
escalation  trends of 11 percent in 2005,  declining to five percent in 2011 and
thereafter,  and annual dental cost escalation  trends of seven percent in 2005,
declining to five percent in 2009 and thereafter,  were employed to estimate the
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations associated with the medical and
dental cost subsidies.

     The  following  table   reconciles   changes  in  the  Company's   unfunded
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations during the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                                    ------------------------------------
                                                                      2004          2003           2002
                                                                    --------      --------      --------
                                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>           <C>
    Beginning accumulated postretirement benefit obligations....    $ 15,556      $ 19,743      $ 19,750
      Benefit payments..........................................      (1,497)       (1,472)       (1,702)
      Service costs.............................................         258           205           205
      Net actuarial gains.......................................         (32)       (4,410)          -
      Accretion of discounts....................................         909         1,490         1,490
      Fair value of Evergreen obligations assumed...............         340           -             -
                                                                     -------       -------       -------
    Ending accumulated postretirement benefit obligations.......    $ 15,534      $ 15,556      $ 19,743
                                                                     =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>

     Estimated  benefit payments and service costs associated with the plans for
the  year  ended   December  31,  2005  are  $1.5  million  and  $1.4   million,
respectively.

NOTE I.     Issuance of Common Stock

     During April 2002, the Company  completed a public offering of 11.5 million
shares of its  common  stock at $21.50  per  share.  Associated  therewith,  the
Company  received  $236.0  million of net proceeds after the payment of issuance
costs.  The Company used the net proceeds  from the public  offering to fund the
2002  acquisition of Falcon assets and associated  acreage in the deepwater Gulf
of  Mexico  and the  West  Panhandle  gas  field  acquisitions.  See  Note C for
information regarding these acquisitions.

NOTE J.     Commitments and Contingencies

     Severance  agreements.  The Company has entered into  severance  agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries and bonuses for the Company's  officers are set by the Company's  board
of directors for the parent  company  officers and by the  Company's  management
committee for subsidiary company officers and key employees. The Company's board
of directors and management  committee can grant increases or reductions to base
salary at their  discretion.  The current annual salaries for the parent company
officers,  the subsidiary  company officers and key employees covered under such
agreements total $23.6 million.


                                       86

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Indemnifications.  The Company has indemnified its directors and certain of
its officers,  employees  and agents with respect to claims and damages  arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

     Legal actions.  The Company is party to various legal actions incidental to
its business,  including,  but not limited to, the proceedings  described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-  quarter  basis and will  adjust its
litigation  reserves  as  appropriate  to  reflect  the then  current  status of
litigation.

     Alford.  The Company is party to a 1993 class action  lawsuit  filed in the
26th Judicial District Court of Stevens County, Kansas by two classes of royalty
owners,  one for  each  of the  Company's  gathering  systems  connected  to the
Company's Satanta gas plant. The case was relatively inactive for several years.
In early 2000, the plaintiffs  amended their pleadings and the case now contains
two material  claims.  First,  the plaintiffs  assert that they were  improperly
charged  expenses   (primarily  field   compression),   which  are  a  "cost  of
production",   and  for  which  the  plaintiffs,  as  royalty  owners,  are  not
responsible.  Second,  the plaintiffs  claim they are entitled to 100 percent of
the value of the helium  extracted at the  Company's  Satanta gas plant.  If the
plaintiffs  were to  prevail on the above two  claims in their  entirety,  it is
possible that the Company's  liability  (both for periods covered by the lawsuit
and from the last date  covered  by the  lawsuit  to the  present - because  the
deductions  continue  to be taken and the  plaintiffs  continue to be paid for a
royalty share of the helium) could reach  approximately  $30 million  related to
the cost of production claim and approximately $40 million related to the helium
claim,  plus prejudgment  interest.  However,  the Company believes it has valid
defenses to the plaintiffs' claims, has paid the plaintiffs properly under their
respective  oil and gas leases and other  agreements,  and intends to vigorously
defend itself.

     The  Company  does not  believe  the costs it has  deducted  are a "cost of
production".  The costs being  deducted are post  production  costs  incurred to
transport the gas to the Company's  Satanta gas plant for processing,  where the
valuable  hydrocarbon  liquids  and  helium  are  extracted  from the  gas.  The
plaintiffs  benefit from such extractions and the Company believes that charging
the  plaintiffs  with  their  proportionate  share  of such  transportation  and
processing  expenses  is  consistent  with  Kansas  law and  with  the  parties'
agreements.

     The Company has also vigorously  defended against plaintiffs' claims to 100
percent of the value of the helium  extracted,  and believes  that in accordance
with  applicable  law, it has  properly  accounted to the  plaintiffs  for their
fractional  royalty share of the helium under the specified  royalty  clauses of
the respective oil and gas leases.  The Company has not  established a provision
for the helium claim.

     The  factual  evidence  in the case  was  presented  to the  26th  Judicial
District Court without a jury in December 2001. Oral arguments were heard by the
court in April 2002,  and  although  the court has not yet entered a judgment or
findings,  it could do so at any time. The Company strongly denies the existence
of any material  underpayment to the plaintiffs and believes it presented strong
evidence at trial to support its positions. However, either through a negotiated
settlement or court ruling,  the Company could have to pay some part of the cost
of  production  claim and,  accordingly,  the Company has  established a partial
reserve for this claim.  Although the amount of any resulting liability,  to the
extent that it exceeds the Company's  provision,  could have a material  adverse
effect on the Company's results of operations for the quarterly reporting period
in which such  liability is recorded,  the Company does not expect that any such
additional  liability will have a material  adverse  effect on its  consolidated
financial  position as a whole or on its liquidity,  capital resources or future
annual results of operations.



                                       87

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows a
"severance,  production  or similar"  tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the maximum  lawful price for gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission ("FERC") ruling that Kansas ad valorem tax was such a tax, one of the
Company's  predecessor  entities collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition
to the otherwise  maximum  lawful  price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the
United  States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia  ("D.C.  Circuit"),
which held in June 1988 that the FERC failed to provide a  reasonable  basis for
its findings and remanded the case to the FERC for further consideration.

     On December 1, 1993,  the FERC issued an order  reversing its prior ruling,
but limited the effect of its decision to Kansas ad valorem taxes for sales made
on or after June 28, 1988. The FERC clarified the effective date of its decision
by an order dated May 18, 1994.  The order  clarified  that the  effective  date
applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28, 1988,  not sales made on or after
that date.  Numerous  parties  filed  appeals  on the FERC's  action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various gas producers challenged the FERC's orders on two grounds: (1)
that  the  Kansas  ad  valorem  tax,  properly  understood,   does  qualify  for
reimbursement  under the NGPA; and (2) the FERC's ruling  should,  in any event,
have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties challenged the FERC's orders on
the grounds that the FERC's  ruling  should have been applied  retroactively  to
December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment of the NGPA and  producers  should
have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

     The D.C.  Circuit  issued its decision on August 2, 1996,  which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production since October 4, 1983, as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were denied on November 6, 1996.  Various gas producers  subsequently
filed a petition  for writ of  certiori  with the United  States  Supreme  Court
seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills rendered on or
after  June 28,  1988 (the  effective  date  originally  selected  by the FERC).
Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori  seeking to
impose refund  liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were denied on
May 12, 1997.

     The Company and other  producers  filed  petitions for adjustment  with the
FERC on June 24, 1997. The Company was seeking a waiver or set-off from the FERC
with respect to that  portion of the refund  associated  with (i)  nonrecoupable
royalties,  (ii)  nonrecoupable  Kansas  property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher  prices  collected and (iii)  interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file claims on refunds sought from producers and refund claims  totaling
approximately  $30.2  million were made against the Company.  As of December 31,
2004,  the Company has settled all of the original claim amounts and believes it
has no further obligation related to this case.

     Lease  agreements.  The  Company  leases  offshore  production  facilities,
equipment and office facilities under  noncancellable  operating leases.  Rental
expenses associated with these operating leases for the years ended December 31,
2004,  2003 and 2002 were  approximately  $51.8 million,  $15.5 million and $6.7
million,  respectively.  Future minimum lease commitments  under  noncancellable
operating leases at December 31, 2004 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>    <C>                                                     <C>
       2005................................................    $  56,365
       2006................................................    $  48,821
       2007................................................    $  34,294
       2008................................................    $  20,199
       2009................................................    $  12,448
       Thereafter..........................................    $  13,214
</TABLE>



                                       88

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Drilling  commitments.  The Company  periodically  enters into  contractual
arrangements under which the Company is committed to expend funds to drill wells
in the future.  The Company also enters into  agreements to secure  drilling rig
services  which require the Company to make future  minimum  payments to the rig
operators. The Company records drilling commitments in the periods in which well
capital is expended or rig services are provided.

     Transportation  agreements.  Associated  with  the  Evergreen  merger,  the
Company assumed gas transportation  commitments for specified volumes of gas per
year through 2014. The  transportation  commitments  are for  approximately  132
million  cubic feet  ("MMcf") of gross gas sales  volumes  per day during  2005,
declining  to  approximately  40 MMcf of gross gas sales  volumes per day during
2014.

     One  of  the  Company's  Canadian  subsidiaries  is  a  party  to  pipeline
transportation  service  agreements,  with remaining terms of  approximately  11
years, whereby it has committed to transport a specified volume of gas each year
from  Canada  to a point  in  Chicago.  Such  gas  volumes  are  comprised  of a
significant portion of the Company's Canadian net gas production, augmented with
certain volumes  purchased at market prices in Canada.  The committed volumes to
be  transported  under  the  pipeline   transportation  service  agreements  are
approximately 78 MMcf of gas per day during 2005 and decline to approximately 75
MMcf of gas per day by the end of the  commitment  term.  The net gas  marketing
gains or losses  resulting from purchasing third party gas in Canada and selling
it in Chicago are recorded as other income or other expense in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Statements of Operations.  Associated with these  agreements,  the
Company  recognized $1.2 million,  $.9 million and $2.6 million of gas marketing
losses in other expense during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

     Future minimum  transportation  fees under the Company's gas transportation
commitments at December 31, 2004 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>    <C>                                                     <C>
       2005................................................    $  58,622
       2006................................................    $  59,705
       2007................................................    $  59,992
       2008................................................    $  59,687
       2009................................................    $  59,242
       Thereafter..........................................    $ 287,021
</TABLE>

NOTE K.     Derivative Financial Instruments

     Fair value  hedges.  The  Company  monitors  the debt  capital  markets and
interest  rate  trends to  identify  opportunities  to enter into and  terminate
interest  rate swap  contracts  with the  objective  of  minimizing  its cost of
capital.  During the  three-year  period ending  December 31, 2004, the Company,
from time to time,  entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge a portion
of the fair  value of its  senior  notes.  The terms of the  interest  rate swap
contracts were for notional  amounts that matched the scheduled  maturity of the
hedged  senior  notes,  required the  counterparties  to pay the Company a fixed
annual  interest  rate equal to the stated  bond  coupon  rates on the  notional
amounts and  required  the  Company to pay the  counterparties  variable  annual
interest  rates on the notional  amounts equal to the periodic  six-month  LIBOR
plus a weighted average annual margin.  During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company paid $9.4  million,  net of $2.2 million of  associated  settlements
receivable,  to terminate  fair value hedge  interest  rate swaps prior to their
stated maturities. Associated therewith, the Company recognized $11.6 million of
"Payments of other  liabilities" in the accompanying  Consolidated  Statement of
Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2004. During the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company  terminated  fair value hedge interest rate swap
contracts for cash proceeds,  including accrued  interest,  of $21.5 million and
$36.3 million,  respectively. The proceeds attributable to the fair value of the
remaining terms of the terminated  contracts amounted to $18.3 million and $32.0
million  and are  included  in  "Proceeds  from  disposition  of  assets" in the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows  during  the  years ended



                                       89

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


December 31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  During the years ended  December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, settlements of open fair value hedges reduced the Company's
interest expense by $2.2 million, $29.3 million and $25.3 million, respectively.
As of  December  31,  2004,  the  Company was not a party to any open fair value
hedges.

     As of December 31, 2004, the carrying value of the Company's long-term debt
in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  included  a  $3.5  million
reduction in the carrying  value  attributable  to net deferred  hedge losses on
terminated  fair value  hedges  that are being  amortized  as net  increases  to
interest  expense  over the original  terms of the  terminated  agreements.  The
amortization  of net  deferred  hedge gains on  terminated  interest  rate swaps
reduced the Company's reported interest expense by $19.2 million,  $26.1 million
and $14.1  million  during the years ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,
respectively.

     The terms of the fair value  hedge  agreements  described  above  perfectly
matched the terms of the hedged senior notes.  Accordingly,  the Company did not
realize any hedge  ineffectiveness  associated with its fair value hedges during
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002.

     The  following  table sets forth,  as of December 31, 2004,  the  scheduled
amortization  of net deferred hedge gains  (losses) on terminated  interest rate
hedges,  including  $3.4  million of  deferred  losses on  terminated  cash flow
interest  rate  hedges,  that will be  recognized  as  increases  in the case of
losses,  or decreases in the case of gains,  to the  Company's  future  interest
expense:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               First     Second      Third     Fourth
                                              Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter     Total
                                              -------    -------    -------    -------    --------
                                                                (in thousands)
<S> <C>                                       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
    2005 net deferred hedge gains..........   $ 2,213    $ 1,300    $   880    $   569    $  4,962
    2006 net deferred hedge gains (losses).   $   440    $   191    $    79    $   (86)        624
    2007 net deferred hedge losses.........   $  (227)   $  (427)   $  (708)   $  (860)     (2,222)
    2008 net deferred hedge losses.........   $  (461)   $  (470)   $  (478)   $  (528)     (1,937)
    2009 net deferred hedge losses.........   $  (523)   $  (596)   $  (605)   $  (627)     (2,351)
    2010 net deferred hedge losses.........   $  (619)   $  (203)   $  (208)   $  (211)     (1,241)
    Thereafter.............................                                                 (4,672)
                                                                                           -------
                                                                                          $ (6,837)
                                                                                           =======
</TABLE>

     Cash flow hedges.  The Company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts
to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on the  commodities  the  Company
produces and sells,  (ii) support the  Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and
expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain
capital  projects.  The Company has also, from time to time,  utilized  interest
rate contracts to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the Company's
indebtedness  and forward currency  exchange  agreements to reduce the effect of
U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate volatility.



                                       90

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Oil prices.  All material physical sales contracts  governing the Company's
oil production  have been tied directly or indirectly to the New York Mercantile
Exchange  ("NYMEX") prices. The following table sets forth the volumes hedged in
barrels ("Bbl") underlying the Company's outstanding oil hedge contracts and the
weighted  average  NYMEX  prices per Bbl for those  contracts as of December 31,
2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                              Yearly
                                               First          Second           Third          Fourth        Outstanding
                                              Quarter         Quarter         Quarter         Quarter         Average
                                           -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------   --------------
<S>                                        <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
  Average daily oil production hedged (a):
      2005 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................         27,000          27,000          27,000          27,000           27,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       27.97   $       27.97   $       27.97   $       27.97   $        27.97

      2006 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................         14,500          14,500          14,500          14,500           14,500
        Price per Bbl....................  $       34.12   $       34.12   $       34.12   $       34.12   $        34.12

      2006 - Collar Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................          3,500           3,500           3,500           3,500            3,500
        Price per Bbl....................  $35.00-$41.95   $35.00-$41.95   $35.00-$41.95   $35.00-$41.95   $ 35.00-$41.95

      2007 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................         17,000          17,000          17,000          17,000           17,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       32.59   $       32.59   $       32.59   $       32.59   $        32.59

      2008 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................         21,000          21,000          21,000          21,000           21,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       30.72   $       30.72   $       30.72   $       30.72   $        30.72

      2009 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................          3,500           3,500           3,500           3,500            3,500
        Price per Bbl....................  $       36.48   $       36.48   $       36.48   $       36.48   $        36.48

      2010 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................          1,000           1,000           1,000           1,000            1,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       36.10   $       36.10   $       36.10   $       36.10   $        36.10

      2011 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................          2,000           2,000           2,000           2,000            2,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       35.93   $       35.93   $       35.93   $       35.93   $        35.93

      2012 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).....................          2,000           2,000           2,000           2,000            2,000
        Price per Bbl....................  $       35.86   $       35.86   $       35.86   $       35.86   $        35.86
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Subsequent to December 31, 2004,  the Company  conveyed to the purchaser of
     the Spraberry Volumetric  Production Payment ("VPP") the following oil swap
     contracts which were included in the schedule above: (i) 4,500 Bbls per day
     of 2006 oil sales at a weighted average fixed price per Bbl of $39.53, (ii)
     4,000 Bbls per day of 2007 oil sales at a weighted  average fixed price per
     Bbl of  $38.14,  (iii)  4,000  Bbls per day of 2008 oil sales at a weighted
     average fixed price per Bbl of $37.15,  (iv) 3,500 Bbls per day of 2009 oil
     sales at a weighted  average fixed price per Bbl of $36.48,  (v) 1,000 Bbls
     per day of 2010 oil  sales at a  weighted  average  fixed  price per Bbl of
     $36.10,  (vi) 2,000  Bbls per day of 2011 oil sales at a  weighted  average
     fixed  price per Bbl of $35.93  and  (vii)  2,000  Bbls per day of 2012 oil
     sales at a weighted  average fixed price per Bbl of $35.86.  See Note U for
     additional information regarding the Spraberry VPP.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       91

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The Company reports average oil prices per Bbl including the effects of oil
quality  adjustments and the net effect of oil hedges.  The following table sets
forth the Company's  oil prices,  both reported  (including  hedge  results) and
realized  (excluding  hedge  results),  and the net effect of settlements of oil
price  hedges on oil revenue for the years ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and
2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                         -----------------------------
                                                          2004       2003       2002
                                                         -------    -------    -------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>
     Average price reported per Bbl..................    $ 31.38    $ 25.59    $ 22.89
     Average price realized per Bbl..................    $ 37.61    $ 28.80    $ 22.95
     Reduction to oil revenue (in millions)..........    $(107.2)   $ (41.3)   $   (.8)
</TABLE>

     Natural gas liquids prices.  During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.  There were no
outstanding NGL hedge contracts at December 31, 2004.

     Gas prices.  The  Company  employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between  NYMEX  prices and actual  index  prices,  or
based on NYMEX  prices if NYMEX  prices  are  highly  correlated  with the index
price.  The  following  table sets forth the volumes  hedged in million  British
thermal units ("MMBtu") underlying the Company's outstanding gas hedge contracts
and the  weighted  average  index  prices  per MMBtu for those  contracts  as of
December 31, 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                        Yearly
                                                  First        Second        Third         Fourth     Outstanding
                                                 Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter      Average
                                               -----------   -----------   -----------   ----------   ------------
<S>                                            <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>
Average daily gas production hedged (a):
   2005 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................        296,556       290,000       290,000      260,000       284,055
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $      5.32   $      5.19   $      5.19   $     5.18   $      5.22

   2006 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................        105,000       104,176       102,500      102,500       103,534
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $      4.70   $      4.69   $      4.67   $     4.67   $      4.68

   2006 - Collar Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................          5,000         5,000         5,000        5,000         5,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $5.25-$7.15   $5.25-$7.15   $5.25-$7.15   $5.25-$7.15  $5.25-$7.15

   2007 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................         55,000        55,000        55,000       55,000        55,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $      4.69   $      4.69   $      4.69   $     4.69   $      4.69

   2008 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................         30,000        30,000        30,000       30,000        30,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $      5.06   $      5.06   $      5.06   $     5.06   $      5.06

   2009 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (MMBtu)........................         25,000        25,000        25,000       25,000        25,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................    $      4.72   $      4.72   $      4.72   $     4.72   $      4.72
<FN>
- --------------
(a)  Subsequent to December 31, 2004,  the Company  conveyed to the purchaser of
     the Hugoton VPP the following gas swap contracts which were included in the
     schedule  above:  (i)  9,151  MMBtu  per day 2005 gas  sales at a  weighted
     average fixed price per MMBtu of $6.17,  (ii) 33,534 MMBtu per day 2006 gas
     sales at a weighted  average  fixed price per MMBtu of $5.78,  (iii) 30,000
     MMBtu per day 2007 gas sales at a weighted average fixed price per MMBtu of
     $5.32, (iv) 25,000 MMBtu per day 2008 gas sales at a weighted average fixed
     price per MMBtu of $5.00 and (v) 25,000  MMBtu per day of 2009 gas sales at
     a  weighted  average  fixed  price  per  MMBtu  of  $4.72.  See  Note U for
     additional information regarding the Hugoton VPP.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       92

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



     The Company  reports  average gas prices per  thousand  cubic feet  ("Mcf")
including the effects of British thermal unit ("Btu")  content,  gas processing,
shrinkage adjustments and the net effect of gas hedges. The following table sets
forth the Company's  gas prices,  both reported  (including  hedge  results) and
realized  (excluding  hedge  results),  and the net effect of settlements of gas
price  hedges on gas revenue for the years ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and
2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                                -------------------------------
                                                                 2004        2003        2002
                                                                -------     -------     -------
<S>                                                             <C>         <C>         <C>
     Average price reported per Mcf..........................   $  4.33     $  3.84     $  2.58
     Average price realized per Mcf..........................   $  4.83     $  4.25     $  2.52
     Addition (reduction) to gas revenue (in millions).......   $(125.7)    $ (76.1)    $  13.6
</TABLE>

     Interest rate.  During June 2004, the Company  entered into costless collar
contracts and  designated  the  contracts as cash flow hedges of the  forecasted
interest rate risk  attributable to the yield on the benchmark 4.75 percent U.S.
Treasury Notes due May 15, 2014 (the "U.S. Treasuries"). The terms of the collar
contracts  fixed  the  annual  yield on $250  million  notional  amount  of U.S.
Treasuries  within a yield  collar  having a ceiling  rate of 4.70 percent and a
floor rate of 4.65 percent.  The yield on the U.S. Treasuries as of July 7, 2004
was the  benchmark  rate used to determine  the coupon rate on the Company's New
Notes,  which were issued on July 15, 2004 in exchange  for  portions of the Old
Notes.  During July 2004, the Company terminated these costless collar contracts
for  $3.4   million  of  cash   payments.   The  Company  did  not  realize  any
ineffectiveness in connection with the costless collar contracts during the year
ended December 31, 2004. See Note F for information  regarding the July 15, 2004
debt exchange.

     Hedge  ineffectiveness.  During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002,  the Company  recognized  other expense of $4.3 million,  $2.8 million and
$1.7 million, respectively, related to the ineffective portions of its cash flow
hedging instruments. These charges include amounts related to hedge volumes that
exceeded revised  forecasts of production  volumes due to delays in the start-up
of production in certain fields.

     Accumulated other comprehensive  income (loss) - net deferred hedge losses,
net of tax ("AOCI - Hedging").  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, AOCI - Hedging
represented net deferred losses of $241.4 and $104.1 million,  respectively. The
AOCI - Hedging  balance as of December 31, 2004 was comprised of $363.1  million
of net deferred losses on the effective portions of open cash flow hedges,  $3.0
million of net deferred  losses on terminated  cash flow hedges  (including $3.4
million of net deferred losses on terminated cash flow interest rate hedges) and
$124.7  million of  associated  net  deferred tax  benefits.  The AOCI - Hedging
balance as of December 31, 2003 was comprised of $200.6  million of net deferred
losses on the effective portions of open cash flow hedges,  $45.1 million of net
deferred  gains on  terminated  cash flow hedges and $51.4 million of associated
net deferred tax benefits.  The increase in AOCI - Hedging during the year ended
December 31, 2004 was primarily  attributable  to increases in future  commodity
prices  relative to the  commodity  prices  stipulated  in the hedge  contracts,
partially  offset by the  reclassification  of net deferred  hedge losses to net
income as derivatives matured by their terms. The net deferred losses associated
with open cash flow hedges remain subject to market price fluctuations until the
positions  are  either  settled  under  the  terms  of the  hedge  contracts  or
terminated  prior to  settlement.  The net deferred gains (losses) on terminated
cash flow hedges are fixed.

     During the  twelve-month  period ending December 31, 2005, based on current
estimates of future commodity  prices,  the Company expects to reclassify $224.1
million of net deferred losses  associated  with open commodity  hedges and $1.7
million of net deferred gains on terminated commodity hedges from AOCI - Hedging
to oil and gas revenues.  The Company also expects to  reclassify  approximately
$81.2  million of net deferred  income tax benefits  associated  with  commodity
hedges  during the  twelve-month  period  ending  December  31, 2005 from AOCI -
Hedging to income tax benefit.


                                       93

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The  following  table sets forth,  as of December 31, 2004,  the  scheduled
amortization of net deferred gains (losses) on terminated  commodity hedges that
will be recognized  as increases in the case of gains,  or decreases in the case
of losses, to the Company's future oil and gas revenues:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              First     Second      Third     Fourth
                                             Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter     Total
                                             -------    -------    -------    -------    --------
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>   <C>                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
      2005 net deferred hedge gains.....     $   424    $   427    $   432    $   434    $  1,717
      2006 net deferred hedge losses....     $  (330)   $  (332)   $  (333)   $  (330)     (1,325)
                                                                                          -------
                                                                                         $    392
                                                                                          =======
</TABLE>

NOTE L.     Major Customers and Derivative Counterparties

     Sales to major customers.  The Company's share of oil and gas production is
sold to various  purchasers who must be prequalified  under the Company's credit
risk  policies  and  procedures.  The Company  records  allowances  for doubtful
accounts  based on the agings of accounts  receivable  and the general  economic
condition of its  customers.  The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any
one purchaser  would not have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company to
sell its oil and gas production.

     The following customer individually accounted for 10 percent or more of the
consolidated  oil, NGL and gas revenues of the Company during one or more of the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year ended December 31,
                                                        ----------------------------------
                                                          2004         2003         2002
                                                        --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
       Williams Power Company, Inc...................      12%          16%          7%
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 2004, the Company had no amounts  receivable  from Williams
Power Company, Inc.

     Derivative  counterparties.  The Company  uses  credit and other  financial
criteria to evaluate the credit  standing of, and to select,  counterparties  to
its derivative  instruments.  Although the Company does not obtain collateral or
otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit
risk is mitigated by the Company's  credit risk policies and  procedures.  As of
December 31, 2004 and 2003,  the Company had $5.3 million of  derivative  assets
for which Enron North  America Corp was the Company's  counterparty.  Associated
therewith,  the Company had a $4.5 million allowance for doubtful accounts as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003.

NOTE M.     Asset Retirement Obligations

     As referred to in Note B, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on
January 1, 2003. The Company's asset retirement  obligations primarily relate to
the future plugging and abandonment of proved properties and related facilities.
The Company  does not provide for a market risk  premium  associated  with asset
retirement  obligations  because a reliable  estimate cannot be determined.  The
Company has no assets that are legally restricted for purposes of settling asset



                                       94

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


retirement  obligations.  The following  table  summarizes  the Company's  asset
retirement obligation transactions recorded in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 143 during the years ended  December  31,  2004 and 2003 and in  accordance
with the provisions of SFAS 19 during the year ended December 31, 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                          -----------------------------------
                                                            2004         2003          2002
                                                          --------    -----------    --------
                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>            <C>
     Beginning asset retirement obligations...........    $105,036    $ 34,692       $ 39,461
        Cumulative effect adjustment..................        -         23,393            -
        New wells placed on production and
           changes in estimates.......................       4,591      46,664            293
        Acquisition liabilities assumed...............      10,488       1,791            -
        Liabilities settled...........................      (8,562)     (8,069)        (6,832)
        Accretion of discount.........................       8,210       5,040          2,562
        Currency translation..........................       1,116       1,525           (792)
                                                           -------     -------       --------
     Ending asset retirement obligations .............    $120,879    $105,036       $ 34,692
                                                           =======     =======        =======
</TABLE>

     The Company records the current and noncurrent portions of asset retirement
obligations  in other current  liabilities  and other  liabilities  and minority
interests, respectively, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE N.     Interest and Other Income

     The following  table provides the components of the Company's  interest and
other income during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                                 --------------------------------
                                                                   2004        2003        2002
                                                                 --------    --------    --------
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                                                              <C>         <C>         <C>
     Kansas ad valorem escrow adjustments (see Note J)........   $    -      $    -      $  3,500
     Business interruption insurance claim....................      7,563         -           -
     Retirement obligation revaluations (see Note H)..........         32       4,410         -
     Excise tax income........................................      3,609       2,369       2,398
     Interest income..........................................         92         981         642
     Seismic data sales.......................................        172         424          87
     Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange gains (a)....        304         657         142
     Gain on early extinguishment of debt (see Note F)........         95         -           -
     Other income.............................................      2,207       3,451       4,453
                                                                  -------     -------     -------
          Total interest and other income.....................   $ 14,074    $ 12,292    $ 11,222
                                                                  =======     =======     =======
<FN>
- ----------
(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       95

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


NOTE O.     Asset Divestitures

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  the  Company
completed asset divestitures for net proceeds of $1.7 million, $35.7 million and
$118.9 million,  respectively.  Associated therewith, the Company recorded gains
on disposition  of assets of $39 thousand,  $1.3 million and $4.4 million during
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     Hedge derivative divestitures. During the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002,  the  Company  terminated,   prior  to  their  scheduled  maturity,  hedge
derivatives  for  cash  sales  proceeds  of $18.3  million  and  $91.3  million,
respectively.  Net gains from these divestitures were deferred and are amortized
over the original contract lives of the terminated  derivatives as reductions to
interest  expense  or  increases  to oil and gas  revenues.  See Note K for more
information regarding deferred gains and losses on terminated hedge derivatives.

     Other United States divestitures.  During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company  received  $1.2 million of cash proceeds from the sale of other U.S.
corporate assets.  Associated with these divestitures,  the Company recorded $.2
million of net gains.  During the year ended  December  31,  2003,  the  Company
received  $15.2  million of cash  proceeds  from the sale of  unproved  property
interests and $.9 million of cash proceeds from the sale of other U.S. corporate
assets. Associated with these divestitures, the Company recorded $1.5 million of
net gains.  During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company  received $20.9
million of proceeds from the cash settlement of a gas balancing receivable, $4.7
million  from the sale of certain gas  properties  located in Oklahoma  and $1.8
million  from  the  sale  of  other  corporate  assets.  Associated  with  these
divestitures, the Company recorded net gains of $4.2 million.

NOTE P.     Other Expense

     The following  table provides the components of the Company's other expense
during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                  --------------------------------
                                                                    2004        2003        2002
                                                                  --------    --------    --------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
     Derivative ineffectiveness and mark-to-market
        provisions (see Note K)...............................    $  4,341    $  2,831    $  1,664
     Contingency adjustments (see Note J).....................      13,552       1,776         -
     Debt exchange offer costs (see Note F)...................       2,248         -           -
     Gas marketing losses (see Note J)........................       1,218         922       2,556
     Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange losses (a)...       2,949       2,672       7,623
     Bad debt expense.........................................       3,674         354         129
     Loss on early extinguishment of debt (see Note F)........         -         1,457      22,346
     Argentine personal asset tax.............................       1,094       1,996         -
     Other charges............................................       4,611       9,312       5,284
                                                                   -------     -------     -------
          Total other expense.................................    $ 33,687    $ 21,320    $ 39,602
                                                                   =======     =======     =======
<FN>
- ----------
(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       96

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


NOTE Q.     Income Taxes

     The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes"  ("SFAS  109").  The  Company  and  its  eligible   subsidiaries  file  a
consolidated United States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries are
not eligible to be included in the consolidated United States federal income tax
return and separate  provisions for income taxes have been  determined for these
entities or groups of entities. The tax returns and the amount of taxable income
or loss are subject to examination by United States  federal,  state,  local and
foreign taxing authorities. Current and estimated tax payments of $17.1 million,
$5.3  million and $2.3  million  were made during the years ended  December  31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

     SFAS 109 requires  that the Company  continually  assess both  positive and
negative  evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred
tax assets can be realized prior to their expiration.  From 1998 until 2003, the
Company  maintained  valuation  allowances against a portion of its deferred tax
asset position in the United States.  During 2003, the Company concluded,  based
on its  improved  operating  results,  that it was more  likely than not that it
would be able to realize  its gross  deferred  tax asset  position in the United
States. Accordingly, the Company reversed its valuation allowances in the United
States.

     Pioneer will continue to monitor Company-specific, oil and gas industry and
worldwide  economic  factors and will reassess the likelihood that the Company's
net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax attributes in the United
States and foreign tax jurisdictions will be utilized prior to their expiration.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company's  valuation  allowances related to foreign
tax jurisdictions were $108.2 million.

     On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the "AJCA") was signed
into law.  The AJCA  includes a  deduction  of 85  percent  of  certain  foreign
earnings that are repatriated,  as defined in the AJCA. The Company may elect to
apply this provision to qualifying  earnings  repatriations in 2005. The Company
has started an evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision; however,
the Company does not expect to be able to complete this  evaluation  until after
Congress or the Treasury  Department provide additional  clarifying  language on
key elements of the provision. The Company expects to complete its evaluation of
the effects of the  repatriation  provision  within a reasonable  period of time
following the publication of the additional  clarifying  language.  The range of
possible amounts that the Company is considering for repatriation  under section
965 of the Internal  Revenue Code is between zero and $80 million with a related
potential  range of income tax between  zero and $5  million.  Until the Company
decides to repatriate  any foreign  earnings,  it will continue to treat them as
permanently invested.

     During the year ended  December  31,  2004,  the  Company  recorded a $26.9
million  tax  benefit  associated  with  the  deduction  of the  Company's  only
investment in Gabon resulting from the impairment of the Olowi field. See Note T
for additional discussion regarding the impairment of the Gabonese Olowi field.



                                       97

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The  Company's  income  tax  provision  (benefit)  and  amounts  separately
allocated were  attributable to the following items for the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                        2004          2003         2002
                                                                     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
     Income before cumulative effect of change in
       accounting principle......................................    $ 166,359     $ (64,403)    $   5,063
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle.........          -           1,312           -
     Changes in goodwill - tax benefits related to stock
       based compensation........................................       (8,955)          -             -
     Changes in stockholders' equity:
       Net deferred hedge losses.................................      (73,340)      (51,064)       (2,561)
       Tax benefits related to stock-based compensation..........       (6,612)      (14,666)          -
       Translation adjustment....................................         (314)         (324)          (20)
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
                                                                     $  77,138     $(129,145)    $   2,482
                                                                      ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

     Income tax provision  (benefit)  attributable  to income before  cumulative
effect of change in  accounting  principle  consisted of the  following  for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                        2004          2003         2002
                                                                     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
     Current:
       U.S. federal................................................  $   2,500     $     100     $     -
       U.S. state and local........................................        602           -             209
       Foreign.....................................................     22,185        11,085         2,066
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
                                                                        25,287        11,185         2,275
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal................................................    138,723       (69,020)          -
       U.S. state and local........................................      5,093        (7,291)          -
       Foreign.....................................................     (2,744)          723         2,788
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
                                                                       141,072       (75,588)        2,788
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
                                                                     $ 166,359     $ (64,403)    $   5,063
                                                                      ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

       Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle consists of the following for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                        2004          2003         2002
                                                                     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
     Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of
       change in accounting principle:
       U.S. federal................................................  $ 477,195     $ 335,170     $  36,475
       Foreign.....................................................      2,018        (4,394)       (4,699)
                                                                      --------      --------      --------
                                                                     $ 479,213     $ 330,776     $  31,776
                                                                      ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>


                                       98

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     Reconciliations  of the United  States  federal  statutory  tax rate to the
Company's  effective tax rate for income before  cumulative  effect of change in
accounting  principle are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                                            ------------------------------
                                                              2004       2003       2002
                                                            -------    -------    --------
                                                                  (in percentages)
<S>                                                            <C>        <C>        <C>
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate.....................      35.0       35.0       35.0
     U.S. valuation allowance reversal...................       -        (59.8)     (44.1)
     Foreign valuation allowances (a)....................       5.1       13.1       28.2
     Rate differential on foreign operations.............       4.4        (.9)       (.5)
     Argentine inflation adjustment (a)..................      (2.0)     (12.4)       -
     Gabon investment deduction..........................      (5.4)       -          -
     Other...............................................      (2.4)       5.5       (2.7)
                                                            -------    -------    -------
        Consolidated effective tax rate..................      34.7      (19.5)      15.9
                                                            =======    =======    =======
<FN>
- -----------
(a)  The Company has applied an inflation  adjustment to its 2004, 2003 and 2002
     Argentine  income tax returns  based on  developing  case law.  The Company
     believes that it is more likely than not that the adjustment will be denied
     by the  Argentine  taxing  authorities  and has  provided  a $49.3  million
     valuation  allowance  against  this  tax  benefit  in its  overall  foreign
     valuation allowances.
<FN>
</TABLE>

       The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows
as of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   December 31,
                                                             -------------------------
                                                                2004          2003
                                                             ----------     ----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards.......................    $  303,002     $  300,296
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards...........         4,144          1,457
  Net deferred hedge losses..............................       124,689         56,842
  Asset retirement obligations...........................        41,874         29,040
  Other..................................................       110,677         92,561
                                                              ---------      ---------
    Total deferred tax assets............................       584,386        480,196
  Valuation allowances...................................      (108,214)       (94,910)
                                                              ---------      ---------
    Net deferred tax assets..............................       476,172        385,286
                                                              ---------      ---------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to
    differences in basis, depletion and the
    deduction of intangible drilling costs for
    tax purposes.........................................       898,753        161,532
  Other..................................................        66,665          3,017
                                                              ---------      ---------
    Total deferred tax liabilities.......................       965,418        164,549
                                                              ---------      ---------
    Net deferred tax asset (liability)...................    $ (489,246)    $  220,737
                                                              =========      =========
</TABLE>

     At December  31, 2004,  the Company had net  operating  loss  carryforwards
("NOLs") for United States,  Equatorial Guinea,  South Africa and Tunisia income
tax purposes as set forth below,  which are available to offset  future  regular
taxable income in each respective tax jurisdiction,  if any.  Additionally,  the




                                       99

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Company has alternative minimum tax NOLs ("AMT NOLs") in the United States which
are available to reduce future alternative minimum taxable income, if any. These
carryforwards expire as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       U.S.            Equatorial     South
                             ----------------------      Guinea       Africa      Tunisia
Expiration Date                 NOL        AMT NOL         NOL          NOL         NOL
- ---------------              ---------    ---------    ----------    ---------    --------
                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                          <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
December 31, 2007.........   $  99,241    $  57,377    $     -       $     -      $     -
December 31, 2008.........     105,787      106,558          -             -            -
December 31, 2009.........      46,110       28,796          -             -            -
December 31, 2010.........      25,144       15,253          -             -            -
December 31, 2011.........       3,849        3,149          -             -            -
December 31, 2012.........      69,098       58,723          -             -            -
December 31, 2018.........     129,363       99,982          -             -            -
December 31, 2019.........     149,351      148,070          -             -            -
December 31, 2020.........      16,723       15,562          -             -            -
December 31, 2021.........      52,914       49,672          -             -            -
December 31, 2022.........      41,833       39,950          -             -            -
December 31, 2023.........      81,564       81,784          -             -            -
Indefinite................         -            -         10,105        10,924       16,562
                              --------     --------     --------      --------      -------
                             $ 820,977    $ 704,876    $  10,105     $  10,924    $  16,562
                              ========     ========     ========      ========     ========
</TABLE>

     The Company believes $120 million of the U.S. NOLs and AMT NOLs are subject
to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and are limited in each taxable year
to approximately $20 million. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, the Company  utilized $124.2  million,  $17.1 million and $34.6 million of
NOLs, respectively.

NOTE R.     Income Per Share Before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting
            Principle

     Basic income per share  before  cumulative  effect of change in  accounting
principle is computed by dividing income before  cumulative  effect of change in
accounting principle by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
for the period.  The  computation of diluted income per share before  cumulative
effect of change in accounting  principle  reflects the potential  dilution that
could occur if  securities  or other  contracts  to issue  common stock that are
dilutive to income before  cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle
were  exercised  or  converted  into common stock or resulted in the issuance of
common stock that would then share in the earnings of the Company.

     The following table is a  reconciliation  of the basic and diluted earnings
before cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                -----------------------------------
                                                                   2004         2003         2002
                                                                ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>          <C>
     Income before cumulative effect of change in
        accounting principle................................    $ 312,854    $ 395,179    $  26,713
     Interest expense on Convertible Notes, net of tax......          802          -            -
                                                                 --------     --------     --------
     Diluted income before cumulative effect of change
        in accounting principle.............................    $ 313,656    $ 395,179    $  26,713
                                                                 ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>



                                       100

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


     The following table is a  reconciliation  of the basic and diluted weighted
average common shares  outstanding  for the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003
and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                                --------------------------------
                                                                  2004        2003        2002
                                                                --------    --------    --------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
     Weighted average common shares outstanding (a):
       Basic...............................................      125,156     117,185     112,542
       Dilutive common stock options (b)...................        1,218       1,112       1,725
       Restricted stock awards.............................          529         216          21
       Convertible Notes dilution..........................          585         -           -
                                                                --------    --------    --------
       Diluted.............................................      127,488     118,513     114,288
                                                                ========    ========    ========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Associated  with the Evergreen  merger on September  28, 2004,  the Company
     issued  25.4  million  shares of  common  stock,  assumed  2.4  million  of
     in-the-money  stock options,  assumed  214,186  restricted  stock units and
     assumed the Convertible Notes.
(b)  Common  stock  options  to  purchase  30,712  shares,  976,506  shares  and
     1,925,743  shares of common stock were  outstanding but not included in the
     computations of diluted income per share before cumulative effect of change
     in  accounting  principle for the years ended  December 31, 2004,  2003 and
     2002, respectively, because the exercise prices of the options were greater
     than  the  average   market  price  of  the  common  shares  and  would  be
     anti-dilutive to the computations.
<FN>
</TABLE>


                                       101

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



NOTE S.     Geographic Operating Segment Information

     The Company has operations in only one industry segment, that being the oil
and  gas  exploration  and  production   industry;   however,   the  Company  is
organizationally structured along geographic operating segments, or regions. The
Company has reportable  operations in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada and
Africa and Other.  Africa and Other is  primarily  comprised  of  operations  in
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

     The following tables provide the geographic operating segment data required
by  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure  about
Segments  of an  Enterprise  and  Related  Information",  as well as  results of
operations  of oil  and  gas  producing  activities  required  by  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
Activities"  as of and for the years ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002.
Geographic  operating  segment  income  tax  benefits   (provisions)  have  been
determined  based on statutory  rates existing in the various tax  jurisdictions
where the Company has oil and gas producing activities. The "Headquarters" table
column includes revenues,  expenses,  additions to property, plant and equipment
and  assets  that  are  not  routinely  included  in the  earnings  measures  or
attributes  internally reported to management on a geographic  operating segment
basis.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              United                                  Africa                      Consolidated
                                              States      Argentina      Canada      and Other    Headquarters       Total
                                            ----------    ----------    ---------    ---------    ------------    ------------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2004:
  Revenues and other income:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $1,451,928    $  134,065    $  83,749    $ 162,921     $     -         $1,832,663
   Interest and other.....................         -             -            -            -          14,074           14,074
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
      assets, net.........................        51           -             (252)        -              240               39
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------      --------        ---------
                                             1,451,979       134,065       83,497      162,921        14,314        1,846,776
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------      --------        ---------
  Costs and expenses:
   Oil and gas production.................     249,551        33,174       31,269       31,510           -            345,504
   Depletion, depreciation and
      amortization........................     420,363        61,773       32,123       47,835        12,780          574,874
   Impairment of oil and gas properties...         -             -            -         39,684           -             39,684
   Exploration and abandonments...........      98,984        23,406       20,000       39,299           -            181,689
   General and administrative.............         -             -            -            -          80,528           80,528
   Accretion of discount on asset
     retirement obligations...............         -             -            -            -           8,210            8,210
   Interest...............................         -             -            -            -         103,387          103,387
   Other..................................         -             -            -            -          33,687           33,687
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------      --------        ---------
                                               768,898       118,353       83,392      158,328       238,592        1,367,563
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------      --------        ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes......     683,081        15,712          105        4,593      (224,278)         479,213
   Income tax benefit (provision).........    (249,325)       (5,499)         (40)       1,413        87,092         (166,359)
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------      --------        ---------
   Net income (loss)......................  $  433,756    $   10,213    $      65    $   6,006     $(137,186)      $  312,854
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========      ========        =========
   Cost incurred for oil and gas assets...  $2,876,185    $  102,452    $ 120,626    $  74,906     $     -         $3,174,169
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========      ========        =========
   Segment assets (as of December 31,
      2004)...............................  $5,455,688    $  708,391    $ 316,124    $ 123,073     $  43,965       $6,647,241
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========      ========        =========
</TABLE>



                                       102

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              United                                  Africa                      Consolidated
                                              States      Argentina      Canada      and Other    Headquarters       Total
                                            ----------    ----------    ---------    ---------    ------------    ------------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
  Revenues and other income:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $1,056,796    $  111,315    $  84,417    $  21,343    $      -         $1,273,871
   Interest and other.....................         -             -            -            -          12,292           12,292
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
      assets, net.........................       1,458           -              1          -            (203)           1,256
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------       ----------
                                             1,058,254       111,315       84,418       21,343        12,089        1,287,419
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------       ----------
  Costs and expenses:
   Oil and gas production.................     196,915        26,110       28,838        2,887           -            254,750
   Depletion, depreciation and
      amortization........................     298,005        46,518       28,991        7,729         9,597          390,840
   Exploration and abandonments...........      72,732        18,076       17,691       24,261           -            132,760
   General and administrative.............         -             -            -            -          60,545           60,545
   Accretion of discount on asset
     retirement obligations...............         -             -            -            -           5,040            5,040
   Interest...............................         -             -            -            -          91,388           91,388
   Other..................................         -             -            -            -          21,320           21,320
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------       ----------
                                               567,652        90,704       75,520       34,877       187,890          956,643
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------       ----------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     cumulative effect of change in
     accounting principle.................     490,602        20,611        8,898      (13,534)     (175,801)         330,776
   Income tax benefit (provision).........    (179,070)       (7,214)      (3,426)       4,738       249,375           64,403
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------       ----------
   Income (loss) before cumulative effect
     of change in accounting principle....  $  311,532    $   13,397    $   5,472    $  (8,796)   $   73,574       $  395,179
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========     =========        =========
   Cost incurred for oil and gas assets...  $  602,167    $   51,671    $  54,800    $  62,817    $      -         $  771,455
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========     =========        =========
   Segment assets (as of December 31,
      2003)...............................  $2,645,153    $  675,425    $ 224,921    $ 159,747    $  246,326       $3,951,572
                                             =========    ========      =========     ========     =========        =========
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
  Revenues and other income:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $  549,675    $   77,615    $  67,065    $     -      $      -         $  694,355
   Interest and other.....................         -             -            -            -          11,222           11,222
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
      assets, net.........................       3,248            (3)         995          -             192            4,432
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------        ---------
                                               552,923        77,612       68,060          -          11,414          710,009
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------        ---------
  Costs and expenses:
   Oil and gas production.................     151,315        13,870       26,960          -             -            192,145
   Depletion, depreciation and
      amortization........................     140,107        39,659       27,857          -           8,752          216,375
   Exploration and abandonments...........      62,955        10,306        5,841        6,792           -             85,894
   General and administrative.............         -             -            -            -          48,402           48,402
   Interest...............................         -             -            -            -          95,815           95,815
   Other..................................         -             -            -            -          39,602           39,602
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------        ---------
                                               354,377        63,835       60,658        6,792       192,571          678,233
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------        ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes......     198,546        13,777        7,402       (6,792)     (181,157)          31,776
   Income tax benefit (provision).........     (69,491)       (4,822)      (3,118)       2,377        69,991           (5,063)
                                             ---------     ---------     --------     --------     ---------        ---------
   Net income (loss)......................  $  129,055    $    8,955    $   4,284    $  (4,415)   $ (111,166)      $   26,713
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========     =========        =========
   Cost incurred for oil and gas assets...  $  533,560    $   35,121    $  33,506    $  70,268    $      -         $  672,455
                                             =========     =========     ========     ========     =========        =========
</TABLE>






                                       103

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


NOTE T.     Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties

     During  October  2004,  the Company  concluded  that a material  charge for
impairment  was  required  under  SFAS  144  for its  Gabonese  Olowi  field  as
development  of the  discovery  was canceled.  Due to  significant  increases in
projected field  development  costs,  primarily due to recent increases in steel
costs, the project does not offer competitive  returns.  The Olowi field was the
Company's  only Gabonese  investment.  The  Company's  current  Gabonese  permit
expires in April 2005.  The Company has  verbally  requested an extension to the
permit to allow more time for the Company to  determine  the best manner to exit
Gabon,  however,  no assurance can be given that such extension will be granted.
During 2004, the Company recorded an associated  impairment  charge to eliminate
the carrying value of the Company's Gabonese Olowi field of $39.7 million.

NOTE U.     Subsequent Event - Volumetric Production Payments

     During  January  2005,  the Company  sold two  percent of its total  proved
reserves,  or 20.5  million BOE of proved  reserves,  by means of VPPs for total
proceeds of $593 million and the assumption of the Company's  obligations  under
certain derivative hedge agreements.  Proceeds from the VPPs were initially used
to pay down indebtedness.

     The VPPs represent limited term overriding royalty interests in oil and gas
reserves which: (i) entitle the purchaser to receive  production  volumes over a
period of time from  specific  lease  interests;  (ii) are free and clear of all
associated  future  production  costs  and  capital   expenditures;   (iii)  are
nonrecourse to the Company (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the assets
acquired);  (iv) transfers  title to the purchaser and (v) allows the Company to
retain the assets after the VPP's volumetric obligations have been satisfied.

     The first VPP sells 58 billion cubic feet of Hugoton field gas volumes over
an  expected  five-year  term  beginning  in February  2005 for $275  million of
proceeds.  The second VPP sells 10.8 million barrels of oil equivalent ("MMBOE")
of Spraberry  field oil volumes over an expected  seven-year  term  beginning in
January 2006 for $318 million of proceeds.

     Under  SFAS 19,  a VPP is  considered  a sale of  proved  reserves  and the
related future production of those proved reserves. As a result the Company will
(i) remove the proved reserves  associated with the VPPs; (ii) recognize the VPP
proceeds as deferred  revenue  which will be amortized  on a  unit-of-production
basis to future oil and gas  revenues  over the terms of the VPPs;  (iii) retain
responsibility for 100 percent of the production costs and capital costs related
to VPP interests and (iv) no longer recognize production associated with the VPP
volumes.

     The Company  will  amortize to oil and gas  revenues  $62.9  million of net
deferred gas revenue during 2005  associated  with the Hugoton field VPP. During
2006,  the Company  will  amortize  $53.7  million of net  deferred  gas revenue
associated  with the Hugoton  field VPP and $57.6  million of net  deferred  oil
revenue associated with the Spraberry field VPP.


                                       104

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Capitalized Costs
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  December 31,
                                                                          ----------------------------
                                                                              2004            2003
                                                                          -----------      -----------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                       <C>              <C>
   Oil and gas properties:
     Proved...........................................................    $ 7,654,181      $ 4,983,558
     Unproved.........................................................        470,435          179,825
                                                                           ----------       ----------
     Capitalized costs for oil and gas properties.....................      8,124,616        5,163,383
     Less accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization........     (2,243,549)      (1,676,136)
                                                                           ----------       ----------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties.................    $ 5,881,067      $ 3,487,247
                                                                           ==========       ==========
</TABLE>

Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Property
                                     Acquisition Costs                                       Asset           Total
                                 -----------------------   Exploration    Development     Retirement         Costs
                                    Proved     Unproved        Costs         Costs      Obligation (a)     Incurred
                                 ----------    ---------    -----------    ---------    --------------    ----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                              <C>           <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>               <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2004:
  United States...............   $2,213,879    $ 301,856    $ 127,338     $ 229,636      $   3,476        $2,876,185
  Argentina...................          -           -          49,745        49,937          2,770           102,452
  Canada......................       46,988       20,921       33,406        13,036          6,275           120,626
  Africa and other............          -         18,238       32,932        21,178          2,558            74,906
                                  ---------     --------     --------      --------       --------         ---------
    Total.....................   $2,260,867    $ 341,015    $ 243,421     $ 313,787      $  15,079        $3,174,169
                                  =========     ========     ========      ========       ========        ==========
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
  United States...............   $  130,876    $  12,264    $ 191,809     $ 228,064      $  39,154        $  602,167
  Argentina...................           97        1,787       24,893        25,361           (467)           51,671
  Canada......................           63        5,028       24,899        23,040          1,770            54,800
  Africa and other............          -            910       33,212        20,697          7,998            62,817
                                  ---------     --------     --------      --------       --------         ---------
    Total ....................   $  131,036    $  19,989    $ 274,813     $ 297,162      $  48,455        $  771,455
                                  =========     ========     ========      ========       ========         =========
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
  United States...............   $  156,736    $  34,048    $  72,831     $ 269,945      $     -          $  533,560
  Argentina...................           12           51       14,530        20,528            -              35,121
  Canada......................          457        2,329        9,992        20,728            -              33,506
  Africa and other............          -          1,843       34,125        34,300            -              70,268
                                  ---------     --------     --------      --------       --------         ---------
    Total ....................   $  157,205    $  38,271    $ 131,478     $ 345,501      $     -          $  672,455
                                  =========     ========     ========      ========       ========         =========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The  Company  adopted  SFAS 143 on January  1, 2003.  See Notes B and M for
     additional   information   regarding   the   Company's   asset   retirement
     obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       105

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Results of Operations

     Information  about the  Company's  results  of  operations  for oil and gas
producing  activities by geographic  operating segment is presented in Note S of
the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

     The estimates of the  Company's  proved oil and gas reserves as of December
31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  which are located in the United  States,  Argentina,
Canada,  Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia,  were based on evaluations  audited by
independent  petroleum  engineers with respect to the Company's major properties
and prepared by the Company's  engineers  with respect to all other  properties.
Reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines  established by the United
States  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  and the FASB,  which  require that
reserve estimates be prepared under existing  economic and operating  conditions
with  no  provision  for  price  and  cost  escalations  except  by  contractual
arrangements.  The Company  reports all reserves held under  production  sharing
arrangements and concessions  utilizing the "economic  interest"  method,  which
excludes the host country's share of proved reserves.  Estimated  quantities for
production sharing  arrangements  reported under the "economic  interest" method
are  subject  to  fluctuations  in the  prices  of oil and  gas and  recoverable
operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities
attributable to recovery of costs will change  inversely to changes in commodity
prices.  The reserve  estimates as of December  31, 2004,  2003 and 2002 utilize
respective  oil  prices  of  $41.96,  $31.10  and  $29.67  per  Bbl  (reflecting
adjustments for oil quality), respective NGL prices of $29.12, $20.26 and $19.01
per Bbl, and respective gas prices of $4.76, $4.23 and $3.37 per Mcf (reflecting
adjustments for Btu content, gas processing and shrinkage).

     Oil  and  gas   reserve   quantity   estimates   are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.

     Proved  reserves at  December  31,  2004  include 6.1 MMBOE  related to the
ten-year  extension  periods  contained in the  Company's  Argentine  concession
agreements. Upon approval by the government, the extension periods begin in 2016
and 2017  depending on the  effective  date that each  concession  agreement was
granted.  The  Company  believes,  based  on  historical  precedent,  that  such
extensions will be obtained as a matter of course.

     The  following  table  provides a rollforward  of total proved  reserves by
geographic  area and in total for the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003 and
2002, as well as proved developed reserves by geographic area and in total as of
the beginning and end of each respective year. Oil and NGL volumes are expressed
in  thousands  of Bbls  ("MBbls"),  gas volumes are  expressed in MMcf and total
volumes are expressed in thousands of barrels oil equivalent ("MBOE").



                                       106

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                2004                              2003                             2002
                                  --------------------------------   ------------------------------   -----------------------------
                                    Oil                                Oil                             Oil
                                  & NGLs       Gas                    & NGLs      Gas                 & NGLs       Gas
Total Proved Reserves:            (MBbls)     (MMcf)       MBOE       (MBbls)    (MMcf)      MBOE     (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
<S>                               <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............  362,751   1,553,976     621,747    337,631   1,483,971   584,960   279,146   1,474,090   524,829
Revisions of previous estimates..    4,671      25,764       8,965     36,823      94,759    52,616    61,529       5,983    62,525
Purchases of minerals-in-place...   11,803   1,571,053     273,646      4,422      57,124    13,942     8,634      83,361    22,528
New discoveries and extensions...    1,017      56,690      10,465        250      80,769    13,712     4,364       5,349     5,255
Production.......................  (16,974)   (200,598)    (50,407)   (16,375)   (162,647)  (43,483)  (16,042)    (84,812)  (30,177)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......      (11)     (6,550)     (1,103)       -           -         -         -           -         -
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............  363,257   3,000,335     863,313    362,751   1,553,976   621,747   337,631   1,483,971   584,960

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1...............   33,469     549,856     125,112     31,532     532,081   120,211    35,669     471,150   114,193
Revisions of previous estimates..   (3,040)    (61,483)    (13,287)     2,027      44,064     9,372    (4,954)     47,829     3,017
New discoveries and extensions...    6,428     116,526      25,849      3,562       8,068     4,907     3,985      41,652    10,927
Production.......................   (3,689)    (44,525)    (11,110)    (3,652)    (34,357)   (9,378)   (3,168)    (28,550)   (7,926)
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............   33,168     560,374     126,564     33,469     549,856   125,112    31,532     532,081   120,211

CANADA
Balance, January 1...............    2,407      93,829      18,045      2,361     119,328    22,249     2,659     132,061    24,669
Revisions of previous estimates..      710       8,580       2,140        344     (14,920)   (2,143)       24      (1,150)     (167)
Purchases of mineral-in-place....      823      22,127       4,511        -           -         -         -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...      541      10,656       2,317         73       4,630       845        68       6,070     1,080
Production.......................     (386)    (15,323)     (2,940)      (371)    (15,209)   (2,906)     (390)    (17,653)   (3,333)
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    4,095     119,869      24,073      2,407      93,829    18,045     2,361     119,328    22,249

AFRICA
Balance, January 1...............   24,154         -        24,154      9,320         -       9,320     7,685         -       7,685
Revisions of previous estimates..  (12,111)        -       (12,111)    (1,817)        -      (1,817)      790         -         790
New discoveries and extensions...      502         -           502     17,374         -      17,374       845         -         845
Production.......................   (4,274)        -        (4,274)      (723)        -        (723)      -           -         -
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    8,271         -         8,271     24,154         -      24,154     9,320         -       9,320

TOTAL
Balance, January 1...............  422,781   2,197,661     789,058    380,844   2,135,380   736,740   325,159   2,077,301   671,376
Revisions of previous estimates..   (9,770)    (27,139)    (14,293)    37,377     123,903    58,028    57,389      52,662    66,165
Purchases of minerals-in-place...   12,626   1,593,180     278,157      4,422      57,124    13,942     8,634      83,361    22,528
New discoveries and extensions...    8,488     183,872      39,133     21,259      93,467    36,838     9,262      53,071    18,107
Production.......................  (25,323)   (260,446)    (68,731)   (21,121)   (212,213)  (56,490)  (19,600)   (131,015)  (41,436)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......      (11)     (6,550)     (1,103)       -           -         -         -           -         -
                                  --------   ---------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
Balance, December 31.............  408,791   3,680,578   1,022,221    422,781   2,197,661   789,058   380,844   2,135,380   736,740
                                  ========   =========   =========   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========

Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States..................  209,349   1,202,264     409,727    209,948   1,067,701   387,899   196,893   1,027,750   368,184
  Argentina......................   21,149     352,660      79,926     22,180     402,640    89,287    28,248     341,967    85,243
  Canada.........................    2,312      86,500      16,728      2,042      90,003    17,042     2,086      94,607    17,854
  Africa.........................    6,817         -         6,817        -           -         -         -           -         -
                                  --------  ----------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
    Balance, January 1...........  239,627   1,641,424     513,198    234,170   1,560,344   494,228   227,227   1,464,324   471,281
                                  ========  ==========   =========   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========

  United States..................  223,749   2,045,275     564,628    209,349   1,202,264   409,727   209,948   1,067,701   387,899
  Argentina......................   20,565     320,616      74,001     21,149     352,660    79,926    22,180     402,640    89,287
  Canada.........................    3,849     107,547      21,773      2,312      86,500    16,728     2,042      90,003    17,042
  Africa.........................    8,271         -         8,271      6,817         -       6,817       -           -         -
                                  --------  ----------   ---------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
    Balance, December 31.........  256,434   2,473,438     668,673    239,627   1,641,424   513,198   234,170   1,560,344   494,228
                                  ========  ==========   =========   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========
<FN>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
o    The proved gas reserves as of December  31, 2004 include  271.7 MMcf of gas
     that  will be  produced  and  utilized  as field  fuel.  Field  fuel is gas
     consumed to operate field equipment  (primarily  compressors)  prior to the
     gas being delivered to a sales point. The above production amounts for 2004
     include approximately 9,600 MMcf of field fuel.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</FN>
</TABLE>
                                       107

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

     The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed by
applying  year-end  prices of oil and gas (with  consideration  of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  undiscounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil and gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the  difference.  The  discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  do not
include the effects of the  Company's  commodity  hedging  contracts.  Utilizing
December 31, 2004  commodity  prices held  constant  over each hedge  contract's
term, the net present value of the Company's  hedge  contracts,  less associated
estimated  income  taxes  and  discounted  at 10  percent,  was a  liability  of
approximately $291 million at December 31, 2004.

     Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like  those  shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.






                                       108

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

     The following tables provide the standardized  measure of discounted future
cash flows by  geographic  area and in total for the years  ended  December  31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, as well as a rollforward in total for each respective year:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                             -----------------------------------------
                                                                 2004           2003           2002
                                                             -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................    $28,373,520    $17,760,911    $14,725,914
   Future production costs...............................     (8,232,530)    (5,440,383)    (4,394,491)
   Future development costs..............................     (1,829,937)    (1,188,394)      (864,386)
   Future income tax expense.............................     (5,612,935)    (3,057,968)    (2,325,946)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                              12,698,118      8,074,166      7,141,091
   10% annual discount factor............................     (7,116,815)    (4,276,678)    (3,684,400)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....    $ 5,581,303    $ 3,797,488    $ 3,456,691
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................    $ 1,747,737    $ 1,257,068    $   986,716
   Future production costs...............................       (289,742)      (233,399)      (175,938)
   Future development costs..............................       (234,309)      (136,663)       (84,669)
   Future income tax expense.............................       (221,733)      (161,683)      (143,845)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                               1,001,953        725,323        582,264
   10% annual discount factor............................       (354,661)      (282,205)      (242,158)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....    $   647,292    $   443,118    $   340,106
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................    $   889,940    $   520,976    $   502,260
   Future production costs...............................       (286,197)       (91,675)       (89,246)
   Future development costs..............................        (40,023)       (11,551)       (22,294)
   Future income tax expense.............................        (96,431)       (72,895)       (87,363)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                 467,289        344,855        303,357
   10% annual discount factor............................       (190,822)      (126,436)      (104,345)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....    $   276,467    $   218,419    $   199,012
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
AFRICA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................    $   333,091    $   713,459    $   279,896
   Future production costs...............................        (75,381)      (212,615)       (95,216)
   Future development costs..............................        (14,497)      (261,413)       (26,770)
   Future income tax expense.............................        (81,680)       (17,062)       (10,912)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                 161,533        222,369        146,998
   10% annual discount factor............................        (23,520)       (98,141)       (16,255)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....    $   138,013    $   124,228    $   130,743
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................    $31,344,288    $20,252,414    $16,494,786
   Future production costs...............................     (8,883,850)    (5,978,072)    (4,754,891)
   Future development costs (a)..........................     (2,118,766)    (1,598,021)      (998,119)
   Future income tax expense.............................     (6,012,779)    (3,309,608)    (2,568,066)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                              14,328,893      9,366,713      8,173,710
   10% annual discount factor............................     (7,685,818)    (4,783,460)    (4,047,158)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....    $ 6,643,075    $ 4,583,253    $ 4,126,552
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  Includes  $258.1  million and $208.1 million of  undiscounted  future asset
     retirement  expenditures  estimated  as of  December  31,  2004  and  2003,
     respectively,  using current  estimates of future  abandonment  costs.  See
     Notes  B  and M  for  corresponding  information  regarding  the  Company's
     discounted asset retirement obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       109

<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                             -----------------------------------------
                                                                 2004           2003           2002
                                                             -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs.............   $(1,719,990)   $(1,136,520)   $  (489,338)
   Net changes in prices and production costs.............     2,082,706        670,165      2,042,575
   Extensions and discoveries.............................       302,794        413,777        152,253
   Development costs incurred during the period...........       249,890        202,396        262,469
   Sales of minerals-in-place.............................       (14,222)           -              -
   Purchases of minerals-in-place.........................     2,058,195        198,442        187,460
   Revisions of estimated future development costs........      (447,828)      (444,726)      (387,404)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates...............       140,950        458,468        527,987
   Accretion of discount..................................       644,238        514,608        250,033
   Changes in production rates, timing and other..........      (167,400)       (71,557)        99,722
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
   Change in present value of future net revenues.........     3,129,333        805,053      2,645,757
   Net change in present value of future income taxes.....    (1,069,511)      (348,352)    (1,019,531)
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                               2,059,822        456,701      1,626,226
   Balance, beginning of year.............................     4,583,253      4,126,552      2,500,326
                                                              ----------     ----------     ----------
   Balance, end of year...................................   $ 6,643,075    $ 4,583,253    $ 4,126,552
                                                              ==========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>




                                       110

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002



Selected Quarterly Financial Results

     The following table provides selected  quarterly  financial results for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Quarter
                                                         ------------------------------------------------
                                                           First       Second      Third (a)     Fourth
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                             (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
2004:
       Oil and gas revenues...........................   $ 435,527    $ 435,930    $ 441,724    $ 519,482
       Total revenues and other income................   $ 437,249    $ 437,308    $ 443,151    $ 529,068
       Total costs and expenses.......................   $ 337,284    $ 315,847    $ 338,708    $ 375,724
       Net income.....................................   $  60,188    $  69,702    $  80,916    $ 102,048
       Net income per share:
          Basic ......................................   $     .51    $     .59    $     .68    $     .71
                                                          ========     ========     ========     ========
          Diluted.....................................   $     .50    $     .58    $     .67    $     .69
                                                          ========     ========     ========     ========
2003:
       Oil and gas revenues...........................   $ 273,431    $ 334,077    $ 326,210    $ 340,153
       Total revenues and other income................   $ 277,570    $ 335,441    $ 326,604    $ 347,804
       Total costs and expenses.......................   $ 206,459    $ 255,626    $ 234,686    $ 259,872
       Net income:
          Income before cumulative effect of change
            in accounting principle...................   $  68,807    $  77,185    $ 191,813    $  57,374
          Cumulative effect of change in accounting
            principle, net of tax.....................      15,413          -            -            -
                                                          --------     --------     --------     --------
          Net income..................................   $  84,220    $  77,185    $ 191,813    $  57,374
                                                          ========     ========     ========     ========
       Basic earnings per share:
          Income before cumulative effect of change
            in accounting principle...................   $     .59    $     .66    $    1.64    $     .49
          Cumulative effect of change in accounting
            principle, net of tax.....................         .13          -            -            -
                                                          --------     --------     --------     --------
          Net income..................................   $     .72    $     .66    $    1.64    $     .49
                                                          ========     ========     ========     ========
       Diluted earnings per share:
          Income before cumulative effect of change
            in accounting principle...................   $     .58    $     .65    $    1.62    $     .48
          Cumulative effect of change in accounting
            principle, net of tax.....................         .13          -            -            -
                                                          --------     --------     --------     --------
          Net income..................................   $     .71    $     .65    $    1.62    $     .48
                                                          ========     ========     ========     ========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The  Company's  third  quarter  results for 2003  include a $104.7  million
     adjustment to reduce United States deferred tax asset valuation allowances.
     See Note Q for additional information regarding income taxes.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       111

<PAGE>



ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     Evaluation of disclosure  controls and procedures.  The Company's principal
executive officer and principal financial officer have evaluated, as required by
Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange  Act"),
the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures  (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule  13a-15(e))  as of the end of the period  covered by this annual  report on
Form  10-K.  Based on that  evaluation,  the  principal  executive  officer  and
principal  financial  officer  concluded  that the design and  operation  of the
Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures  are  effective in ensuring that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files
or  submits  under the  Exchange  Act is  recorded,  processed,  summarized  and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.

     Changes in internal  control over financial  reporting.  There have been no
changes in the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting (as defined
in Rule  13a-15(f)  under the Exchange Act) that  occurred  during the Company's
last fiscal quarter that have  materially  affected or are reasonably  likely to
materially affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting.


        MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     The  management of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company (the  "Company") is
responsible for  establishing  and maintaining  adequate  internal  control over
financial reporting.  The Company's internal control over financial reporting is
a process  designed  under the  supervision  of the  Company's  Chief  Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding
the  reliability  of financial  reporting and the  preparation  of the Company's
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.

     As of December  31, 2004,  management  assessed  the  effectiveness  of the
Company's  internal  control over financial  reporting based on the criteria for
effective  internal  control over financial  reporting  established in "Internal
Control  --  Integrated  Framework",  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway  Commission.  Based on the assessment,  management
determined that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on those criteria.

     Ernst & Young LLP, the independent  registered  public accounting firm that
audited the  consolidated  financial  statements of the Company included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K,  has issued an  attestation  report on  management's
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of December  31,  2004.  The report,  which  expresses  unqualified
opinions on management's  assessment and on the  effectiveness  of the Company's
internal  control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004, is included
in this  Item  under  the  heading  "Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public
Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting".




                                       112

<PAGE>



                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
          ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We have  audited  management's  assessment,  included  in the  accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial  Reporting,  that Pioneer
Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries (the "Company")  maintained effective
internal  control over  financial  reporting  as of December 31, 2004,  based on
criteria  established in Internal  Control - Integrated  Framework issued by the
Committee of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway  Commission  (the "COSO
criteria").  The Company's  management is responsible for maintaining  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  and  for  its  assessment  of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial  reporting.  Our responsibility
is to  express  an  opinion  on  management's  assessment  and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting based
on our audit.

     We  conducted  our audit in  accordance  with the  standards  of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and  perform  the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether
effective  internal  control over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all
material  respects.  Our audit included  obtaining an  understanding of internal
control over financial reporting,  evaluating management's  assessment,  testing
and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control,  and
performing   such  other   procedures   as  we   considered   necessary  in  the
circumstances.  We believe that our audit  provides a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

     A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

     Because  of its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial
reporting  may not prevent or detect  misstatements.  Also,  projections  of any
evaluation  of  effectiveness  to future  periods  are  subject to the risk that
controls may become  inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

     In  our  opinion,  management's  assessment  that  the  Company  maintained
effective internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004, is
fairly stated, in all material  respects,  based on the COSO criteria.  Also, in
our  opinion,  the  Company  maintained,  in all  material  respects,  effective
internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the
COSO criteria.

     We also have  audited,  in  accordance  with the  standards  of the  Public
Company  Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated  balance
sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated  statements
of operations,  stockholders' equity, cash flows and comprehensive income (loss)
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 of the Company
and our report dated February 17, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.


                                                               Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas
February 17, 2005
                                       113

<PAGE>



ITEM 9B.     OTHER INFORMATION

       None.

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 12, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 12, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
             MANAGEMENT

     See "Item 5. Market for  Registrant's  Common  Stock,  Related  Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" for information regarding the
Company's equity  compensation  plans.  The information  required in response to
this item is set  forth in the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  for the
annual meeting of  stockholders  to be held on May 12, 2005 and is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  information  required by Item 201(d) of Regulation  S-K in response to
this item is provided in "Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Stock,  Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities".  The information
required by Item 403 of Regulation  S-K in response to this item is set forth in
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders
to be held on May 12, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 12, 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference.





                                       114

<PAGE>



                                     PART IV


ITEM 15.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements

  Financial Statements

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included
in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Report of Independent Registered Pubic Accounting Firm
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31,
         2004, 2003 and 2002
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended
         December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,
         2004, 2003 and 2002
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years
         Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

(b)    Exhibits

     The exhibits to this Report required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c) are
listed below and in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(c)     Financial Statement Schedules

     No financial  statement  schedules are required to be filed as part of this
Report or they are inapplicable.




                                       115

<PAGE>



  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                                  Description

2.1     -   Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as  of May 3,  2004,  among the
            Company,   Evergreen  and  BC  Merger  Sub,  Inc.  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 2.1  to the  Company's Current  Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 5, 2004).
3.1     -   Amended  and  Restated  Certificate  of Incorporation of the Company
            (incorporated   by  reference  to   Exhibit  3.1  to  the  Company's
            Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-4,   dated  June  27,  1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).
3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
4.1     -   Form of Certificate  of Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share,  of
            the  Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to the
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June 27,  1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).
4.2     -   Rights  Agreement  dated  July 24,  2001,  between  the  Company and
            Continental  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust   Company,   as Rights  Agent
            (incorporated   by  reference  to   Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 1-13245, filed with the
            SEC on July 24, 2001).
4.3     -   Certificate  of  Designation  of   Series  A  Junior   Participating
            Preferred Stock  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit
            4.1 to the Company's Registration  Statement on  Form  8-A, File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
4.4     -   Indenture dated April 12,  1995,  between Pioneer USA  (successor to
            Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company  ("Parker & Parsley"))  and The
            Chase   Manhattan   Bank   (National   Association),    as   trustee
            (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 4.1  to Parker &  Parsley's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).
4.5     -   First Supplemental  Indenture  dated as  of  August 7,  1997,  among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee,  and Pioneer
            USA, with respect to the indenture  identified above as  Exhibit 4.4
            (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5  to  the  Company's
            Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q  for the  period ended September 30,
            1997, File No. 1-13245).
4.6     -   Second Supplemental Indenture  dated as of December 30,  1997, among
            Pioneer USA, Pioneer  NewSub1, Inc. and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
            trustee,  with respect to  the indenture identified above as Exhibit
            4.4 (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 10.17  to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).
4.7     -   Third Supplemental Indenture  dated as of December 30,  1997,  among
            Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), Pioneer DebtCo,
            Inc. and The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
4.8     -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of  December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. (as  successor to  Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc.,  as
            successor to  Pioneer USA),  the Company,  Pioneer USA and The Chase
            Manhattan Bank, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
            the Company's Current Report  on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
4.9     -   Indenture dated  January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank
            of New York,  as trustee  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1
            to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).
4.10    -   First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 1998, among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor, and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the
            Company's and  Pioneer USA's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).
4.11    -   Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 11, 2000,  among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor, and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as  Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.1 to the
            Company's Quarterly Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period ended March
            31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).


                                       116

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                                  Description

4.12    -   Third Supplemental Indenture  dated as of April 30,  2002, among the
            Company, Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor,  and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.4  to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for the  three months ended
            March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
4.13    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 15,  2004,  among the
            Company and  The Bank of  New York, as trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.9 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.1  to the  Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
4.14    -   Fifth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of July 15,  2004,  among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor, and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the
            Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
            the SEC on July 19, 2004).
4.15    -   Indenture dated as of March 10,  2004,  among Evergreen and Wachovia
            Bank,  National  Association,  as trustee,  relating to  Evergreen's
            5.875% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 4.1 to Evergreen's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
            quarter ended March 31, 2004,  File No. 1-13171,  filed with the SEC
            on May 10, 2004).
4.16    -   Indenture dated as of  December 18, 2001,  among Evergreen and First
            Union  National Bank,  as trustee,  relating  to  Evergreen's  4.75%
            Senior Convertible  Notes due  December 15,  2021  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.3 to Evergreen's Annual Report on  Form 10-K
            for the  year ended December 31, 2001,  File No. 1-13171, filed with
            the SEC on March 11, 2002).
4.17    -   First Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 28,  2004, among
            Pioneer Evergreen  Properties,  LLC  (as successor to Evergreen) and
            Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to the
            indenture  identified  above  as   Exhibit  4.15   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.5  to the Company's  Current Report  on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
4.18    -   First Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 28, 2004,  among
            the Company, Evergreen and  Wachovia Bank,  National Association (as
            successor to  First Union  National Bank),  as trustee, with respect
            to the indenture identified  above as Exhibit 4.16  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Amendment to the Current
            Report on  Form 8-K/A,  File No.  1-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            November 5, 2004).
4.19    -   Second Supplemental  Indenture dated as of September 28, 2004, among
            the Company,  Pioneer Evergreen  Properties,  LLC  (as  successor to
            Evergreen) and Wachovia Bank,  National Association (as successor to
            First  Union  National  Bank),  as  trustee,  with  respect  to  the
            indenture   identified  above  as   Exhibit  4.16  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's  Current  Report on  Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
4.20    -   Third Supplemental  Indenture dated as of  September 30, 2004, among
            the Company,  Pioneer  Debt Sub,  LLC and  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association (as successor to First Union National Bank), as trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit  4.16
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1  to the Company's  Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November
            5, 2004).
4.21    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of  September 30, 2004, among
            the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (as successor to
            First  Union  National  Bank),  as  trustee,  with  respect  to  the
            indenture  identified  above   as  Exhibit  4.16   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.2  to the  Company's  Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
4.22    -   Second Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 30, 2004, among
            Pioneer Debt Sub,  LLC and Wachovia Bank,  National Association,  as
            trustee, with respect to the  indenture identified  above as Exhibit
            4.15   (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.3 to  the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            November 5, 2004).
4.23    -   Third Supplemental Indenture dated  as of September 30,  2004, among
            the Company and  Wachovia Bank,  National  Association,  as trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit 4.15
            (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 4.15 to the Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November
            5, 2004).
4.24    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of  November 1, 2004,  among
            the Company, Pioneer USA, as guarantor, and Wachovia Bank,  National
            Association, as trustee, with  respect to  the indenture  identified
            above as  Exhibit 4.15  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to
            the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on November 5, 2004).


                                       117

<PAGE>




Exhibit
Number                                  Description

10.1H   -   1991 Stock  Option  Plan  of  Mesa Inc.  ("Mesa")  (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit  10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1991).
10.2H   -   1996 Incentive  Plan of Mesa  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
            10.28 to the  Company's Registration  Statement on  Form S-4,  dated
            June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
10.3H   -   Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive  Plan, dated February 19, 1991
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 4.1 to  Parker & Parsley's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).
10.4H   -   First Amendment  to the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            dated August 23, 1991 (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
            Parker  &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,  dated
            February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).
10.5H   -   The Company's Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by  reference
            to Exhibit 4.1  to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
            Registration No.  333-35087,  filed  with the  SEC  on  September 8,
            1997).
10.6H   -   First Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of  November 23, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.72
            to the Company's  Annual Report  on Form  10-K for  the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.7H   -   Second   Amendment  to  the   Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
            effective as of  May 20, 1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.73 to the  Company's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  for the period
            ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.8H   -   Third   Amendment  to   the  Company's  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan,
            effective  as of  February 17,  2000  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit  10.76 to the Company's Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.9H   -   The  Company's  Employee   Stock  Purchase  Plan   (incorporated  by
            reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form  S-8,  Registration  No.  333-35165,  filed  with  the  SEC  on
            September 8, 1997).
10.10H  -   First  Amendment  to the  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase Plan,
            dated December 9,  1998 (incorporated by reference  to the Company's
            Annual  Report  on Form  10-K for  the year ended December 31, 1998,
            File No. 1-13245).
10.11H  -   Second  Amendment to  the Company's  Employee  Stock Purchase  Plan,
            dated December 14, 1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74
            to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.12H  -   The Company's  Deferred  Compensation  Retirement Plan (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Registration Statement
            on Form S-8,  Registration No.  333-39153,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            October 31, 1997).
10.13H  -   Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included
            as part of the  Parker & Parsley Long-Term  Incentive Plan, dated as
            of November 16, 1995,  between Parker & Parsley  and Named Executive
            Officers identified on  Schedule 1  setting forth additional details
            relating  to  the   Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan
            (incorporated  by reference to  Parker & Parsley's  Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-10695).
10.14H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
            and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a  schedule  identifying
            substantially identical  agreements between the  Company and each of
            the other named  executive officers identified on Schedule I for the
            purpose  of  defining  the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon the
            termination of the officer's employment under  certain circumstances
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7  to   the  Company's
            Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q  for the  period ended  September 30,
            1997, File No. 1-13245).
10.15G  -   Amendment to  Schedule I  with respect  to the  Severance  Agreement
            identified above as Exhibit 10.14.
10.16G  -   Form of Severance Agreement,  dated  January 1,  2005,   between the
            Company  and  the  Officer,  together  with  a schedule  identifying
            substantially  identical agreements  between the Company and each of
            the other named officers identified on  Exhibit A for the purpose of
            defining the payment of certain benefits upon the termination of the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances.
10.17G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  January 1,  2005,  between  the
            Company and  Kenneth H. Sheffield, Jr.,  for the purpose of defining
            the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances.



                                       118

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                  Description

10.18G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  December 1,  2000,  between the
            Company and  Chris J.  Cheatwood,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment  of certain  benefits upon the  termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.19G  -   Amendment to  Severance Agreement,  dated as of  February 19,  2002,
            between  the  Company and  Chris J.  Cheatwood,  for the  purpose of
            redefining the payment  of certain  benefits upon the termination of
            the officer's employment under certain circumstances with respect to
            the Severance Agreement identified above as Exhibit 10.18.
10.20G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as  of  November 1, 2003,  between the
            Company  and  A. R.  Alameddine,  for  the  purpose of  defining the
            payment of  certain benefits upon the  termination of  the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.21G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  December 1,  1999,  between the
            Company and  Thomas C.  Halbouty,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment  of certain  benefits upon  the termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.22G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  August  8,  1997,  between  the
            Company  and  Larry N.  Paulsen,  for  the  purpose of  defining the
            payment of certain benefits upon the  termination  of the  officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.23G  -   Amendment  to  August  8,  1997  Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of
            February 19, 2002, between the Company and Larry N. Paulsen, for the
            purpose of  redefining  the  payment of  certain  benefits  upon the
            termination of the officer's employment under  certain circumstances
            with respect to the  Severance Agreement identified above as Exhibit
            10.22.
10.24G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  August 24,  1999,  between  the
            Company and Danny Kellum, for the purpose of defining the payment of
            certain benefits  upon the  termination of the  officer's employment
            under certain circumstances.
10.25G  -   Amendment to  August 24,  1999  Severance  Agreement,  dated  as  of
            February 19, 2002, between the Company and Danny L. Kellum,  for the
            purpose of  redefining the  payment of  certain  benefits  upon  the
            termination of the officer's employment  under certain circumstances
            with respect to the  Severance Agreement identified above as Exhibit
            10.24.
10.26G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  January 1,  2005,  between  the
            Company and  Todd A.  Dillabough,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment  of certain  benefits upon the  termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.27H  -   Indemnification Agreement, dated as of  August 8, 1997,  between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially  identical agreements  between the Company and each of
            the  Company's   other  directors   and  named   executive  officers
            identified on Schedule I (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.8
            to the Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).
10.28G  -   Amendment  to  Schedule  I  with  respect   to  the  Indemnification
            Agreement identified above as Exhibit 10.27.
10.29H  -   Pioneer USA 40l(k) and Matching Plan, Amended and Restated Effective
            as of January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
            the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
10.30   -   5-Year  Revolving Credit  Agreement dated  as of  December 16, 2003,
            among the  Company,  as the  Borrower;  JP Morgan Chase  Bank as the
            Administrative Agent;  JP Morgan  Chase Bank  and Bank  of  America,
            N.A., as the Issuing Banks;  Wachovia Bank,  National Association as
            the Syndication Agent;  Bank of America, N.A., Bank One, N.A., Fleet
            National Bank  and Wells Fargo Bank,  National  Association,  as the
            Co-Documentation Agents  and certain other lenders  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13245).
10.31   -   First Amendment  to 5-Year  Revolving  Credit  Agreement dated as of
            June 9, 2004  among the  Company,  as the Borrower;  JP Morgan Chase
            Bank as  the Administrative Agent;  JP Morgan Chase Bank and Bank of
            America,  N.A.,  as  the  Issuing  Banks;  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association  as the  Syndication Agent;  Bank of America, N.A., Bank
            One, N.A.,  Fleet  National  Bank and  Wells  Fargo  Bank,  National
            Association,  as  the  Co-Documentation  Agents  and  certain  other
            lenders  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
            Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended June 30, 2004,
            File No. 1-13245).




                                       119

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                  Description

10.32   -   364-Day Credit  Agreement dated  as of  September 28, 2004 among the
            Company, as the Borrower; JP Morgan Chase Bank as the Administrative
            Agent; Bank of America, N.A.,  Barclays Bank PLC,  Wells Fargo Bank,
            National  Association and Wachovia Bank, National Association as the
            Co-Documentation  Agents and  certain other lenders (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the Company's  Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
10.33   -   Non-Competition  Agreement  dated  October  29,  2004,  between  the
            Company and  Mark S. Sexton  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit
            10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,
            filed with the SEC on November 4, 2004).
10.34   -   Second Amendment to  5-Year  Revolving Credit  Agreement dated as of
            January 21, 2005 among the Company,  as the Borrower; JPMorgan Chase
            Bank as the  Administrative Agent;  JPMorgan Chase  Bank and Bank of
            America,  N.A.,  as  the  Issuing  Banks;  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association as the Syndication Agent;  Bank of America,  N.A.,  Bank
            One,  N.A.,  Fleet  National  Bank and  Wells Fargo  Bank,  National
            Association, as the Co-Documentation Agents;  J.P. Morgan Securities
            Inc. and  Wachovia Capital  Markets,  LLC,  as the  Co-Arrangers and
            Joint  Bookrunners;  and  certain  other  lenders  (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the  Company's Current  Report on  Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 27, 2005).
10.35   -   First Amendment  to 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of January 21,
            2005 among the Company,  as the Borrower; JPMorgan Chase Bank as the
            Administrative Agent;  Bank of America,  N.A.,  Barclays  Bank  PLC,
            Wells Fargo Bank,  National Association and Wachovia Bank,  National
            Association  as the  Co-Documentation Agents; J.P. Morgan Securities
            Inc. as  the Lead Arranger  and Sole  Bookrunner;  and certain other
            lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to  the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            January 27, 2005).
10.36   -   Production Payment Purchase and  Sale Agreement dated  as of January
            26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Royalty Acquisition
            Company, LLC,  as the Buyer  (related to Hugoton gas)  (incorporated
            by reference  to Exhibit 99.2  to the  Company's  Current  Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2005).
10.37   -   Production Payment Purchase and  Sale Agreement  dated as of January
            26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Royalty Acquisition
            Company,  LLC,  as the Buyer (related to Spraberry oil)(incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2005).
10.38H  -   2000 Stock Incentive Plan of Evergreen Resources, Inc. (incorporated
            by reference to  Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Registration Statement
            on Form S-8,  File No.  333-119355,  filed with the SEC on September
            29, 2004).
10.39H  -   Carbon Energy  Corporation 1999  Stock Option Plan  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8,  File No. 333-119355,  filed with the SEC on September 29,
            2004).
10.40H  -   Evergreen Resources, Inc.  Initial Stock  Option Plan  (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's  Registration Statement
            on Form S-8, File No. 333-119355,  filed with  the SEC  on September
            29, 2004).
14.1    -   Code of Business  Conduct and Ethics  (incorporated by  reference to
            Annex D of the Company's  Schedule 14A  Definitive Proxy  Statement,
            File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on April 7, 2003).
21.1(a) -   Subsidiaries of the  registrant.
23.1(a) -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
23.2(a) -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
31.1(a) -   Chief Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  302  of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2(a) -   Chief  Financial  Officer  certification  under  Section 302  of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1(b) -   Chief  Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  906 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2(b) -   Chief  Financial  Officer  certification  under  Section 906 of  the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
- ---------------
(a) Filed herewith.
(b) Furnished herewith.

H   Executive  Compensation  Plan or Arrangement  previously  filed  pursuant to
    Item 14(c).
G   Executive  Compensation Plan or Arrangement filed herewith  pursuant to Item
    14(c).


                                       120

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                 PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date: February 16, 2005          By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                     Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board,
                                       Chief Executive Officer and Assistant
                                       Secretary

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

         Signature                                 Title                            Date
         ---------                                 -----                            ----

<S>                                 <C>                                       <C>
  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield            Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive    February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Scott D. Sheffield                     Officer and Assistant Secretary
                                       (principal executive officer)

  /s/ Richard P. Dealy              Executive Vice President and Chief        February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Richard P. Dealy                       Financial Officer
                                       (principal financial officer)

  /s/ Darin G. Holderness           Vice President and Chief Accounting       February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Darin G. Holderness                    Officer


  /s/ James R. Baroffio             Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ Edison C. Buchanan            Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Edison C. Buchanan


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner           Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton             Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones                Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Linda K. Lawson               Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Linda K. Lawson


  /s/ Andrew D. Lundquist           Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Andrew D. Lundquist


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.        Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


  /s/ Mark S. Sexton                Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Mark S. Sexton


  /s/ Robert A. Solberg             Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Robert A. Solberg


  /s/ Jim A. Watson                 Director                                  February 16, 2005
- ------------------------------
Jim A. Watson

</TABLE>



                                       121

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index


2.1     -   Agreement and  Plan of Merger,  dated as of  May 3, 2004,  among the
            Company,  Evergreen  and   BC  Merger  Sub,  Inc.  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 2.1  to the  Company's Current  Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 5, 2004).
3.1     -   Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the  Company
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1   to  the   Company's
            Registration   Statement  on   Form  S-4,   dated  June  27,   1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).
3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3.2 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
4.1     -   Form of Certificate of  Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share,  of
            the  Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 4.1  to  the
            Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June 27,  1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).
4.2     -   Rights  Agreement  dated  July  24,  2001,  between the  Company and
            Continental  Stock  Transfer  &  Trust  Company,   as  Rights  Agent
            (incorporated  by   reference  to  Exhibit   4.1  to  the  Company's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 1-13245, filed with the
            SEC on July 24, 2001).
4.3     -   Certificate  of  Designation  of   Series  A  Junior   Participating
            Preferred Stock  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit
            4.1 to the Company's  Registration Statement on  Form 8-A,  File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
4.4     -   Indenture dated  April 12,  1995,  between Pioneer USA (successor to
            Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company  ("Parker & Parsley"))  and The
            Chase    Manhattan   Bank   (National   Association),   as   trustee
            (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Parker & Parsley's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).
4.5     -   First Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  August  7,  1997,  among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as trustee, and Pioneer
            USA, with respect to the  indenture identified  above as Exhibit 4.4
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5  to   the  Company's
            Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q  for the  period ended  September 30,
            1997, File No. 1-13245).
4.6     -   Second Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer USA, Pioneer NewSub1, Inc.  and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
            trustee, with respect  to the indenture identified  above as Exhibit
            4.4 (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.17  to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).
4.7     -   Third Supplemental Indenture  dated as of  December 30,  1997, among
            Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), Pioneer DebtCo,
            Inc. and The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.18  to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
4.8     -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated  as of December 30,  1997, among
            Pioneer  DebtCo, Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer  NewSub1, Inc.,  as
            successor to  Pioneer USA),  the Company,  Pioneer USA and The Chase
            Manhattan Bank, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
            the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
4.9     -   Indenture dated  January 13,  1998, between the Company and The Bank
            of New York, as trustee (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 99.1
            to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).
4.10    -   First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 1998, among the
            Company, Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary  guarantor, and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  99.2 to the
            Company's and  Pioneer USA's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).




                                       122

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index


4.11    -   Second Supplemental  Indenture dated as of April 11, 2000, among the
            Company, Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor,  and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to the
            Company's Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the period ended March
            31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).
4.12    -   Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 30,  2002,  among the
            Company, Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor,  and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.4  to the
            Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the  three months  ended
            March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
4.13    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 15,  2004,  among the
            Company and  The Bank of New York,  as trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.9 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.1  to the  Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K, File
            No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
4.14    -   Fifth Supplemental  Indenture dated as of July 15,  2004,  among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor, and The Bank of
            New York, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified above
            as Exhibit 4.9  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the
            Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
            the SEC on July 19, 2004).
4.15    -   Indenture dated as of March 10, 2004,  among Evergreen and  Wachovia
            Bank,  National  Association,  as trustee,  relating to  Evergreen's
            5.875% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 4.1 to  Evergreen's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
            quarter ended March 31, 2004,  File No. 1-13171,  filed with the SEC
            on May 10, 2004).
4.16    -   Indenture dated as of  December 18, 2001,  among Evergreen and First
            Union  National  Bank,  as trustee,  relating to  Evergreen's  4.75%
            Senior Convertible  Notes  due  December 15,  2021  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.3 to  Evergreen's Annual Report  on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 2001,  File No. 1-13171,  filed with
            the SEC on March 11, 2002).
4.17    -   First Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of September 28, 2004, among
            Pioneer Evergreen Properties,  LLC (as successor  to Evergreen)  and
            Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to the
            indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.15   (incorporated   by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.5 to  the  Company's Current  Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
4.18    -   First Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 28,  2004, among
            the Company, Evergreen and  Wachovia Bank,  National Association (as
            successor to First Union National Bank), as trustee, with respect to
            the indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 4.16  (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1  to the Company's Amendment  to the Current
            Report on  Form 8-K/A,  File No.  1-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            November 5, 2004).
4.19    -   Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 28, 2004,  among
            the Company,  Pioneer  Evergreen Properties,  LLC  (as  successor to
            Evergreen)  and Wachovia Bank, National Association (as successor to
            First  Union  National  Bank),  as  trustee,  with  respect  to  the
            indenture   identified  above  as   Exhibit  4.16  (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4.7  to the  Company's  Current Report  on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
4.20    -   Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of  September 30, 2004,  among
            the Company,  Pioneer  Debt Sub,  LLC and  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association (as successor to First Union National Bank), as trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit  4.16
            (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November
            5, 2004).
4.21    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 30, 2004,  among
            the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association (as successor to
            First  Union  National  Bank),  as  trustee,  with  respect  to  the
            indenture  identified  above   as  Exhibit  4.16   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.2  to the Company's  Current Report  on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).



                                       123

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index


4.22    -   Second Supplemental  Indenture dated as of September 30, 2004, among
            Pioneer Debt Sub, LLC and  Wachovia Bank,  National  Association, as
            trustee, with respect to the  indenture identified  above as Exhibit
            4.15  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.3  to the  Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on
            November 5, 2004).
4.23    -   Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 30,  2004,  among
            the Company  and  Wachovia Bank,  National Association,  as trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit 4.15
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the  Company's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on November
            5, 2004).
4.24    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of  November 1,  2004,  among
            the Company, Pioneer USA, as guarantor,  and Wachovia Bank, National
            Association,  as trustee,  with respect to the  indenture identified
            above as Exhibit 4.15  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 4.5 to
            the Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
            with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
10.1H   -   1991 Stock  Option  Plan  of Mesa  Inc.  ("Mesa")  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1991).
10.2H   -   1996 Incentive  Plan of  Mesa (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10.28 to the  Company's  Registration Statement on  Form S-4,  dated
            June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
10.3H   -   Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan, dated February 19, 1991
            (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 4.1  to  Parker & Parsley's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).
10.4H   -   First Amendment  to the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            dated August 23, 1991 (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
            Parker  &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,  dated
            February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).
10.5H   -   The Company's  Long-Term Incentive  Plan (incorporated  by reference
            to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on  Form S-8,
            Registration  No. 333-35087,  filed  with the  SEC on  September 8,
            1997).
10.6H   -   First  Amendment   to  the  Company's   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan,
            effective  as of  November 23,  1998  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.72  to the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10- K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.7H   -   Second   Amendment   to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
            effective as of May 20,  1999  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.73 to the Company's  Annual Report  on Form  10-K  for the period
            ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.8H   -   Third  Amendment   to  the   Company's  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan,
            effective  as of  February 17,  2000  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.76  to the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10- K for the
            period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.9H   -   The  Company's  Employee   Stock  Purchase  Plan   (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Registration Statement on
            Form  S-8,  Registration  No.  333-35165,  filed  with  the  SEC  on
            September 8, 1997).
10.10H  -   First Amendment  to the  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan,
            dated December 9, 1998  (incorporated by reference to  the Company's
            Annual Report  on  Form 10-K  for the  year ended December 31, 1998,
            File No. 1-13245).
10.11H  -   Second Amendment  to the  Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase Plan,
            dated December 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.74
            to the Company's  Annual  Report on  Form 10-K for the  period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
10.12H  -   The Company's Deferred  Compensation  Retirement  Plan (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Registration Statement
            on Form S-8,  Registration  No. 333-39153,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            October 31, 1997).



                                       124

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index


10.13H  -   Omnibus Amendment to  Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements, included
            as part of the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as
            of November 16, 1995,  between Parker & Parsley and  Named Executive
            Officers  identified on  Schedule 1 setting forth additional details
            relating  to  the   Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan
            (incorporated  by reference  to  Parker & Parsley's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-10695).
10.14H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
            and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a  schedule  identifying
            substantially identical  agreements between  the Company and each of
            the other named executive officers identified on  Schedule I for the
            purpose  of  defining  the  payment of  certain  benefits  upon  the
            termination of the officer's  employment under certain circumstances
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7  to  the   Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for the  period  ended  September 30,
            1997, File No. 1-13245).
10.15G  -   Amendment to  Schedule I  with  respect  to  the Severance Agreement
            identified above as Exhibit 10.14.
10.16G  -   Form of Severance  Agreement,  dated  January 1,  2005,  between the
            Company  and the  Officer,  together  with  a  schedule  identifying
            substantially identical  agreements between the Company  and each of
            the other named  officers identified on Exhibit A for the purpose of
            defining the payment of certain benefits upon the termination of the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances.
10.17G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  January 1,  2005,  between  the
            Company and Kenneth H. Sheffield, Jr.,  for the purpose of  defining
            the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the
            officer's employment under certain circumstances.
10.18G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  December 1,  2000,  between the
            Company and  Chris J. Cheatwood,  for the  purpose  of  defining the
            payment  of certain benefits upon the  termination of  the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.19G  -   Amendment  to Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of February 19, 2002,
            between the  Company and  Chris J.  Cheatwood,  for the  purpose  of
            redefining the payment of certain benefits  upon the  termination of
            the officer's employment under certain circumstances with respect to
            the Severance Agreement identified above as Exhibit 10.18.
10.20G  -   Severance Agreement,  dated  as of  November 1,  2003,  between  the
            Company  and  A.  R.  Alameddine,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment of  certain  benefits upon  the termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.21G  -   Severance Agreement,  dated  as of  December  1,  1999,  between the
            Company and  Thomas C.  Halbouty,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment  of certain  benefits upon  the termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.22G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as  of  August  8,  1997,  between the
            Company  and  Larry  N.  Paulsen,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment of certain  benefits upon  the termination  of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.23G  -   Amendment  to  August  8,  1997  Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of
            February 19, 2002, between the Company and Larry N. Paulsen, for the
            purpose of  redefining  the payment  of certain  benefits  upon  the
            termination of the officer's employment  under certain circumstances
            with respect to the  Severance Agreement identified above as Exhibit
            10.22.
10.24G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  August 24,  1999,  between  the
            Company and Danny Kellum, for the purpose of defining the payment of
            certain  benefits  upon the  termination of the officer's employment
            under certain circumstances.
10.25G  -   Amendment to  August 24,  1999  Severance  Agreement,  dated  as  of
            February 19, 2002, between the Company and Danny L. Kellum,  for the
            purpose of  redefining  the  payment  of certain  benefits upon  the
            termination of the  officer's employment under certain circumstances
            with respect to the Severance  Agreement identified above as Exhibit
            10.24.



                                       125

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index


10.26G  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated  as of  January 1,  2005,  between  the
            Company and  Todd A.  Dillabough,  for the  purpose of  defining the
            payment of  certain benefits  upon the  termination of the officer's
            employment under certain circumstances.
10.27H  -   Indemnification Agreement, dated as of  August 8, 1997,  between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially identical  agreements between the  Company and each of
            the  Company's  other   directors  and   named  executive   officers
            identified on Schedule I  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
            to the Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).
10.28G  -   Amendment  to   Schedule I  with  respect   to  the  Indemnification
            Agreement identified above as Exhibit 10.27.
10.29H  -   Pioneer USA 40l(k) and Matching Plan, Amended and Restated Effective
            as of January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
            the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
10.30   -   5-Year  Revolving Credit Agreement  dated as of  December 16,  2003,
            among the  Company,  as the  Borrower;  JP Morgan  Chase Bank as the
            Administrative  Agent;  JP Morgan Chase  Bank and  Bank of  America,
            N.A.,  as the Issuing Banks;  Wachovia Bank, National Association as
            the Syndication Agent;  Bank of America, N.A., Bank One, N.A., Fleet
            National Bank and  Wells Fargo Bank,  National  Association,  as the
            Co-Documentation  Agents and certain other lenders  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-13245).
10.31   -   First Amendment  to 5-Year  Revolving  Credit  Agreement dated as of
            June 9, 2004  among the  Company,  as the Borrower;  JP Morgan Chase
            Bank as the  Administrative Agent;  JP Morgan Chase Bank and Bank of
            America,  N.A.,  as  the  Issuing  Banks;  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association  as the  Syndication Agent;  Bank of America, N.A., Bank
            One,  N.A.,  Fleet  National Bank  and  Wells  Fargo Bank,  National
            Association,  as  the  Co-Documentation  Agents  and  certain  other
            lenders  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
            Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended  June 30, 2004,
            File No. 1-13245).
10.32   -   364-Day Credit Agreement dated  as of  September 28, 2004  among the
            Company, as the Borrower; JP Morgan Chase Bank as the Administrative
            Agent;  Bank of America, N.A.,  Barclays Bank PLC, Wells Fargo Bank,
            National  Association and Wachovia Bank, National Association as the
            Co-Documentation Agents and certain  other lenders  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 99.2 to the  Company's Current  Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on October 1, 2004).
10.33   -   Non-Competition  Agreement  dated  October  29,  2004,  between  the
            Company and  Mark S. Sexton  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
            10.1 to the Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
            filed with the SEC on November 4, 2004).
10.34   -   Second Amendment to  5-Year Revolving Credit  Agreement  dated as of
            January 21,  2005 among the Company, as the Borrower; JPMorgan Chase
            Bank as the  Administrative  Agent;  JPMorgan Chase Bank and Bank of
            America,  N.A.,  as  the  Issuing  Banks;  Wachovia  Bank,  National
            Association  as the  Syndication Agent;  Bank of America, N.A., Bank
            One, N.A., Fleet  National  Bank  and  Wells  Fargo  Bank,  National
            Association, as the  Co-Documentation Agents; J.P. Morgan Securities
            Inc. and  Wachovia Capital  Markets,  LLC,  as  the Co-Arrangers and
            Joint  Bookrunners;  and  certain  other  lenders  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's  Current Report  on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 27, 2005).




                                       126

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index

10.35   -   First Amendment  to 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of January 21,
            2005 among the  Company, as the Borrower; JPMorgan Chase Bank as the
            Administrative  Agent;  Bank of  America, N.A.,  Barclays  Bank PLC,
            Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and  Wachovia Bank,  National
            Association as  the Co-Documentation Agents;  J.P. Morgan Securities
            Inc. as  the Lead  Arranger and  Sole Bookrunner;  and certain other
            lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2  to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 27, 2005).
10.36   -   Production Payment  Purchase and  Sale Agreement dated as of January
            26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Royalty Acquisition
            Company, LLC, as the Buyer (related to Hugoton gas) (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the Company's  Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2005).
10.37   -   Production Payment Purchase  and Sale Agreement  dated as of January
            26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Royalty Acquisition
            Company, LLC,  as the Buyer (related to  Spraberry oil)(incorporated
            by reference to  Exhibit 99.3  to  the  Company's Current  Report on
            Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2005).
10.38H  -   2000   Stock   Incentive   Plan   of   Evergreen   Resources,   Inc.
            (incorporated  by  reference   to  Exhibit  4.4   to  the  Company's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-119355,  filed with
            the SEC on September 29, 2004).
10.39H  -   Carbon Energy Corporation  1999 Stock  Option Plan  (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8,  File No. 333-119355,  filed with the SEC on September 29,
            2004).
10.40H  -   Evergreen Resources,  Inc. Initial  Stock Option  Plan (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's  Registration Statement
            on Form S-8,  File  No. 333-119355,  filed with the SEC on September
            29, 2004).
14.1    -   Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics  (incorporated by  reference to
            Annex D of  the Company's  Schedule 14A Definitive Proxy  Statement,
            File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on April 7, 2003).
21.1(a) -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.
23.1(a) -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
23.2(a) -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
31.1(a) -   Chief  Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  302 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2(a) -   Chief  Financial  Officer  certification  under  Section  302 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1(b) -   Chief  Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  906 of the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2(b) -   Chief Financial Officer  certification  under  Section  906  of  the
            Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

- ---------------
(a) Filed herewith.
(b) Furnished herewith.

H   Executive  Compensation  Plan  or Arrangement  previously  filed pursuant to
    Item 14(c).
G   Executive  Compensation Plan or Arrangement filed  herewith pursuant to Item
    14(c).




                                       127

<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1015.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.15
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.15


                                   SCHEDULE I



Scott D. Sheffield
Mark L. Withrow




<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1016.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.16
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.16

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into,  effective
January 1,  2005,  between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  and [See  Exhibit  A] (the  "Officer").  As used in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1.  Position and Duties.  Officer  shall  initially  serve  Company as [See
Exhibit A], and, in so doing,  shall report to Company's Board of Directors (the
"Board"),  Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "Chief Executive  Officer") or
such officers of Company as is prescribed by Company's bylaws, by resolutions of
the Board or by direction of the Chief  Executive  Officer.  Officer  shall have
supervision  and control  over,  and  responsibility  for, such  management  and
operational  functions of the Company currently  assigned to such position,  and
shall   have  such   other  or   different   functions,   powers,   duties   and
responsibilities   (including   holding  officer  positions  with  one  or  more
subsidiaries of Parent),  as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board or
the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any other  Company  officer  to whom  Officer
reports,  so long as such  functions,  powers  and  duties  are  reasonable  and
customary  for a [See Exhibit A] serving an  enterprise  comparable  to Company.
Employee's  failure to accept and  perform  such other or  different  functions,
powers or duties shall be deemed to be a Termination  of Employment by voluntary
action of Employee, and shall not constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described in Section 1, he/she shall devote his/her full time, skill
and  attention  and his/her best efforts  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and  affairs  of the  Company  to the extent  necessary  to  discharge
faithfully  and  efficiently  his/her  duties and  responsibilities,  except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary.  As compensation  for Officer's  services,  the Company
shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per annum (the
"Base  Salary").  The  Base  Salary  shall be  payable  in  substantially  equal
semi-monthly  installments.   The  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  (the
"Compensation  Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant
such  increases,  or  effect  such  reductions,   in  the  Base  Salary  as  the
Compensation   Committee   considers   appropriate   in  accordance   with  such
compensation  guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The

                                      -1-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

<PAGE>



Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's  employment
with the Company,  commencing on the effective date of this Agreement,  shall be
that as reflected in the records of the Human Resources Department.

        (b) Bonuses.  Officer shall be  entitled to receive  (in addition to the
Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the  Compensation  Committee
may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies as it may
establish from time to time.

        (c) Other Benefits.  Officer  shall be  entitled to  participate in,  or
receive  benefits under,  any employee  benefit plan or other  arrangement  made
available  now or in the  future by the  Company to the  officers  of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms,  conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

        (d) Vacations and Holidays.  Officer shall be  entitled to the number of
paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from time to time
for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given by the Company
to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall  initially  be required to perform  his/her
duties and  responsibilities  hereunder  at  Company's  offices  located in [See
Exhibit  A]. If the  Company  requires  Officer  to perform  his/her  duties and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of [See Exhibit A] (a "New Location") and, within 30 days after receiving
notice thereof,  Officer accepts such relocation rather than terminating his/her
employment  with the Company  pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to
Officer,  or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed
evidence thereof), such sums as are provided for under the Relocation Policy for
Exempt  Employees as  established by Company.  Officer's  failure to accept such
relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,  shall be deemed to be
a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5. Termination of Employment.

        (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company (including
his/her  officer  position  with Company)  shall be  terminated  upon the death,
Disability  (as  defined  in  subsection  (f)(3)  of  this  Section)  or  Normal
Retirement  (as defined in  subsection  (f)(5) of this  Section) of Officer.  In
addition,  Officer's  employment  with the Company  (including  his/her  officer
position  with  Company) may be  terminated  at any time and for any reason as a
result of a dismissal  by the  Company or as a result of a  voluntary  action by
Officer.  Any  such  termination  of  employment  is  referred  to  herein  as a
"Termination of Employment."

        (b) Notice of Termination.

            (1)  Any Termination of  Employment that  is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof.  Such notice  shall state that,  in the  opinion of the
         Board,  Officer is suffering from a  Disability and  such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

            (2)  Any Termination of  Employment that  is the result of Officer's
         Normal  Retirement  shall  be communicated by  Officer to  Company by a
         written  notice  thereof.  Such notice  shall  state  that  Officer  is
         retiring and shall  specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than  30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Company.

            (3) Any Termination of Employment  that is the result of a dismissal
         by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) shall be
         communicated by  the Company  to Officer  by a written  notice thereof.
         Such notice  shall state  whether or not (in the Company's opinion) the
         Termination of  Employment  constitutes  a Termination  for  Cause  (as
         defined in  subsection  (f)(6) of this  Section) and, if so,  shall set
         forth in reasonable detail facts and circumstances constituting a basis
         for such Termination for Cause.


                                      -2-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

<PAGE>




            (4) Any Termination  of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action  by   Officer  (but  is  not  the  result  of  Officer's  Normal
         Retirement) shall  be communicated  by  Officer  to  Company by written
         notice thereof.  Such notice shall state  whether or not  (in Officer's
         opinion) the  Termination of  Employment constitutes  a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in  subsection (f)(7) of this  Section) and, if
         so, shall set  forth in reasonable  detail the  facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason.  Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such  Termination of  Employment,  which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason)  shall be  not less  than 30 days  following the date such
         notice is received by Company.

        (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this Agreement,
the date of a  Termination  of  Employment  shall be (1) if the  Termination  of
Employment is the result of Officer's  death, the date of such death, (2) if the
Termination  of  Employment is the result of Officer's  Disability,  the date on
which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(1) of this Section is received by
Officer,  (3) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's Normal
Retirement,  the date specified in the notice described in subsection  (b)(2) of
this Section,  (4) if the Termination of Employment is the result of a dismissal
by the  Company  (but is not the result of  Officer's  Disability),  the date on
which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(3) of this Section is received by
the  Officer,  or such later  date as may be  specified  by the  Company in such
notice,  and (5) if the  Termination  of Employment is the result of a voluntary
action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's  Normal  Retirement),  the
date specified in the notice described in subsection (b)(4) of this Section,  or
such  earlier  date as the  Company  may  specify,  provided  that if such  date
specified by Company is less than 30 days  following  the date Company  received
notice from  Employee,  then  Company  agrees to pay officer an amount  equal to
one-twelfth (1/12) of Officer's Base Salary,  which amount shall be paid in cash
on the date of such Termination of Employment.

        (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The provisions of
subsections  (d)(1)  and  (d)(3)  of  this  Section  shall  apply  to  any  such
Termination of Employment,  whether occurring prior to, at the time of or at any
time  following  a Change in Control (as  defined in  subsection  (f)(2) of this
Section);  and the  provisions of subsection  (d)(2) of this Section shall apply
only if such Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control.

            (1) Death,  Disability or Normal  Retirement.  If the Termination of
         Employment  is the  result of  Officer's  death,  Disability or  Normal
         Retirement,  the Company shall pay the following amounts to Officer (or
         his/her estate or personal representative):

                (A) The Base Salary  (at the rate  in effect on the date of such
         Termination of  Employment,  as reflected in  the records  of the Human
         Resources Department)  pro-rated through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be  paid in  cash on the  first normal  semi-monthly  Base Salary
         payment date immediately  succeeding  the date  of such  Termination of
         Employment;

                (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's participation in, or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base Salary (at the rate
         in effect on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected
         in the records of the Human Resources Department), which amount shall
         be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of such Termination
         of Employment.

            (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If the Termination
         of Employment  (i) is  the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is
         not the  result of  Officer's  Disability)  and  does not  constitute a
         Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result  of a  voluntary  action by


                                      -3-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

<PAGE>



         Officer  (but is not  the result  of Officer's  Normal  Retirement) and
         constitutes a Termination for Good  Reason,  the Company  shall pay the
         following amounts, and provide the following benefits to Officer:

                (A) The Base Salary  (at the rate  in effect on the date of such
         Termination of  Employment,  as reflected in  the records  of the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the  date of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                (B) Any  amount arising  from  Officer's  participation  in,  or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                (C) A lump sum  amount equal to  one full year's Base Salary (at
         the rate in effect on the date  of such  Termination of  Employment, as
         reflected in  the records  of the  Human  Resources  Department), which
         amount  shall be  paid  in  cash on  the date  of such  Termination  of
         Employment;

                (D) For  a  period  of  one  year  following  the  date  of such
         Termination  of  Employment,  a  continuation of  all health  insurance
         coverage applicable  at the  time of  such Termination of Employment to
         Officer and Officer's immediate family under any Benefit Plan; and

                (E) With respect  to a Termination  of Employment  described  in
         subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,  if  the  date of  Termination of
         Employment  is  less  than  thirty (30)  days after the  date of notice
         thereof,  an amount equal  to one-twelfth  (1/12) of the Officer's Base
         Salary,  which  amount  shall  be paid  in  cash  on the  date of  such
         Termination of Employment.

            (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If the Termination
         of Employment  (i) is  the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is
         not the result of  Officer's Disability)  and constitutes a Termination
         for Cause or (ii) is the result  of a voluntary  action by Officer (but
         is not  the  result  of  Officer's  Normal  Retirement)  and  does  not
         constitute a  Termination for  Good  Reason,  the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                (A) The Base  Salary (at  the rate in effect on the date of such
         Termination of Employment,  as reflected  in the  records of  the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the date  of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be  paid in  cash on  the first  normal semi-monthly  Base Salary
         payment date  immediately  succeeding the date  of such  Termination of
         Employment; and

                (B) Any  amounts  arising from  Officer's participation  in,  or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

            (4) Payment  Contingent  on  Release.  If  Officer's  Termination of
         Employment is prior to  a Change in Control  (and only in  that event),
         and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided in subsection
         (d)(2)  of this  Section,  then such  payment shall  be subject to, and
         contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General  Release Agreement in
         favor of the Company in substantially the form and substance as the one
         attached hereto as Schedule A.

        (e) Additional  Provisions Applicable  Upon  Termination  of  Employment
Concurrent with or Following Change in Control.  The following  provisions shall
apply to any such Termination of Employment  occurring at the time of, or at any
time within one year following, a Change in Control.


                                      -4-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



            (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If the Termination
         of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal  by the  Company (but is
         not the  result  of Officer's  Disability) and  does  not  constitute a
         Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the  result of a voluntary  action by
         Officer  (but is  not the result of  Officer's Normal  Retirement)  and
         constitutes a Termination for  Good Reason,  the Company shall  pay the
         following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to Officer:

                (A) The  Base Salary  (at the rate in effect on the date of such
         Termination of Employment,  as reflected  in the  records of  the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the date  of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                (B) A  lump  sum  in  cash  equal to  2.99 times  the sum of (i)
         Officer's  Base  Salary  (at the  rate in  effect on  the date  of such
         Termination  of Employment,  as reflected  in the records  of the Human
         Resources Department), plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's
         targeted bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for Officer, which
         amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
         Employment;

                (C) Any amount  arising  from  Officer's  participation  in,  or
         benefits under,  any employee  Benefit Plan  or other  arrangement made
         available now or in the future by the Company to its employees, through
         and including the date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts
         shall be payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
         Benefit Plan;

                (D) For  a  period of  one  year  following  the  date  of  such
         Termination  of  Employment,  a  continuation of  all health  insurance
         coverage  applicable at  the time of such  Termination of Employment to
         Officer and his/her immediate family under any Benefit Plan; and

                (E) With  respect  to a  Termination of  Employment described in
         subsection (e)(1)(i) of this  Section,  if the  date of  Termination of
         Employment is  less  than thirty  (30) days  after the  date of  notice
         thereof, an amount equal  to one-twelfth (1/12)  of the  Officer's Base
         Salary,  which amount  shall be  paid  in  cash  on  the  date  of such
         Termination of Employment.

            (2) Voluntary  Termination  Not for  Good Reason  or for  Failure to
         Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection (e) to
         the contrary,  if the Termination of Employment  (i) is the result of a
         voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a Termination for Good
         Reason,  and occurs  at least  six  months, but not more than one year,
         following  a  Change   in  Control,   or  (ii)   whether  voluntary  or
         involuntary,  occurs at  the time of, or at any  time  within  one year
         following,  a Change in Control  and following the Company's  requiring
         the Officer to perform his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder at
         a New  Location, which  relocation is not accepted by Officer within 30
         days after  receiving notice  thereof, then  the Company  shall pay  to
         Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to subsection (d)(2)
         of this Section had such Termination of  Employment  occurred  prior to
         the Change in Control and constituted a Termination for Good Reason.

            (3) Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                (A) If any portion of such compensation  constitutes a parachute
         payment  (a "Payment")  and is  subject to  the Excise Tax (hereinafter
         defined),   then  Company  shall,   in  addition   to  providing   such
         compensation, pay the Gross-Up Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer
         in the  manner  described below.  For purposes of  this Agreement,  (i)
         "Excise Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of the
         Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer with respect
         to such  Excise  Tax,  and  (ii) "Gross-Up  Payment" shall  mean,  with
         respect  to  any  compensation  provided  to  the  Officer  by  Company
         (including  without limitation  the payments  provided for  under  this
         Agreement and any payments to  the  Officer under any  employee benefit

                                      -5-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



         plan,  including  without  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive
         Plan, or other  arrangement)  that is  subject to  the  Excise  Tax, an
         amount that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment for
         all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest or  penalties
         imposed with respect to  such taxes) to which  the Gross-Up  Payment is
         subject  (including  the Excise  Tax to  which the  Gross-Up Payment is
         subject),  is  equal  to the  amount of  the Excise  Tax to  which such
         compensation is subject.  For purposes of determining the amount of any
         Gross-Up Payment,  Officer shall  be deemed to pay federal income taxes
         at the highest  marginal rate  of taxation  and state  and local taxes,
         if applicable, at the highest marginal  rate of  taxation  in the state
         and locality of  residence of  the Officer  on the Date of Termination,
         net of the  maximum reduction  in federal  income  taxes that  could be
         obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes, if any.

                (B) Subject  to the  provisions of  subsection  5(e)(3)(C),  all
         determinations  required  to  be made  under this  subsection  5(e)(3),
         including whether and when  a Gross-Up  Payment is required, the amount
         of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving
         at such  determination,  shall  be made  by the  accounting firm  which
         performed  the  audit of the Company for the year preceding the year in
         which the  Change in  Control occurred  (the  "Accounting Firm")  which
         shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company  and
         the Officer within 15 business days of the receipt  of notice from  the
         Officer that  there has  been a  Payment,  or such  earlier time  as is
         requested by  the Company.  In the  event that  the Accounting  Firm is
         serving as accountant or auditor for the  individual,  entity or  group
         effecting the  Change in Control,  the Officer  shall  appoint  another
         nationally  recognized  accounting  firm  to  make  the  determinations
         required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then  be referred to as
         the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting
         Firm shall be  borne solely  by the Company.  Any Gross-Up  Payment, as
         determined  pursuant  to this  subsection 5(e)(3), shall be paid by the
         Company  to  the  Officer  within  five  days  of  the  receipt  of the
         Accounting Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that
         no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer,  it shall furnish  the Officer
         with a written  opinion  that failure  to  report the Excise Tax on the
         Officer's  applicable  federal income  or excise  tax return  would not
         result in  the imposition  of a  negligence  or  similar  penalty.  Any
         determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the  Company
         and the Officer.

                (C) The Officer shall notify the Company in writing of any claim
         by the Internal  Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the
         payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall
         be given no later  than ten business days after the Officer is informed
         in writing of such claim. The Officer shall not pay such claim prior to
         the expiration of  the 30-day  period following  the date  on which  it
         gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period  ending on the
         date that any payment of taxes with respect  to such claim  is due). If
         the Company notifies the Officer in writing  prior to the expiration of
         such period  that it desires  to contest  such claim,  (i) the  Officer
         shall  accept legal  representation with  respect to  such claim  by an
         attorney  reasonably  selected by  the Company, (ii) cooperate with the
         Company in good faith in order to  effectively  contest such claim, and
         (iii) permit the Company to participate in any  proceedings relating to
         such claim; provided, however, the Company shall  bear and pay directly
         all costs  and  expenses  (including  legal  and  accounting  fees  and
         additional  interest  and  penalties) incurred  in connection with such
         contest and  shall indemnify  and  hold  the Officer  harmless,  on  an
         after-tax basis,  for any Excise  Tax or income tax (including interest
         and penalties  with  respect  thereto) imposed  as  a  result  of  such
         representation  and  payment of  costs  and expenses. The Company shall
         control all proceedings  taken in connection  with such  contest to the
         extent  relating to  issues impacting  whether  a  Gross-Up Payment  is
         payable hereunder. The Officer shall be  entitled to settle or contest,
         as the case  may be,  any other issue  raised by the  Internal  Revenue
         Service or  any other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                (D) If  any such  claim referred  to in subsection 5(e)(3)(C) is
         made by the Internal Revenue Service and  the Company  does not request
         the Officer to contest the  claim within  the  30-day period  following


                                      -6-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>


         notice of the claim, the Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of
         any  Gross-Up  Payment  owed to  the  Officer,  but not previously paid
         pursuant to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately  upon the  expiration of
         such 30-day period.  If any such claim is made by the Internal  Revenue
         Service and the Company requests the Officer to contest such claim, the
         Company shall  pay to  the Officer  the amount  of any Gross-Up Payment
         owed to the  Officer, but  not previously paid  under the provisions of
         subsection 5(e)(3)(B), within five days of a Final Determination of the
         liability  of the  Officer for  such Excise  Tax.  For purposes of this
         Agreement,  a  "Final  Determination"  shall be  deemed to  occur  with
         respect to a claim when (i)  there is a decision,  judgment,  decree or
         other order by any  court of  competent  jurisdiction,  which decision,
         judgment, decree or other order has become  final, i.e.,  all allowable
         appeals have been exhausted by either  party to the action,  (ii) there
         is a closing agreement  made under Section 7121  of the Code,  or (iii)
         the time for  instituting a claim for refund has expired, or if a claim
         was filed,  the time  for instituting  suit with  respect  thereto  has
         expired.

            (4) Letter of Credit.  Following a Change in Control, Parent (within
         10 days following  receipt  of Officer's  written request therefor), at
         its sole cost and expense, shall  post an irrevocable  letter of credit
         with a  banking  institution  reasonably  acceptable  to Officer  in an
         amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash  payments that
         would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection if the  provisions of paragraph  (1) of this subsection
         were  to  become  applicable.   Such  letter  of  credit  shall contain
         provisions  making  the  funds  available  thereunder  to   Officer  by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws)  drawn  at sight  by  presentation  by  Officer  to  the
         applicable banking  institution of a  written  statement to  the effect
         that  the  Company is  in default  on a  payment to  be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of  this Agreement  (setting forth  the amount of
         such payment in  default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following  the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

            (5) Retirement  Benefits  Funded.  Upon  a  Change  in  Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement  benefit obligations  to Officer  under
         any then  existing  retirement plan  shall be  fully funded  to a Rabbi
         Trust  for the  benefit of  such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

        (f) Certain  Definitions.  As used  in the Section and elsewhere in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings indicated:

            (1) "Across-the-Board  Salary  Reduction"  shall mean a reduction in
         the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a  rate consistent with, a
         reduction in the base  salaries paid  to substantially  all officers of
         Company.

            (2) "Change in  Control"  shall mean the  occurrence, following  the
         Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:  (i) an event
         that would constitute  a Change in  control as  that term is defined in
         the Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor plan thereto,
         or  (ii)  consummation  of   a  Business   Combination  not   otherwise
         constituting a  Change in  Control  but,  pursuant  to which the Person
         serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the  execution of the
         initial agreement is removed from,  or replaced in,  such capacity with
         respect to the corporation resulting from such Business Combination.

            (3) "Disability"  shall mean Officer's physical or mental impairment
         or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the opinion of the Board,
         either (A)  Officer is unable to continue to perform his/her duties and
         responsibilities  hereunder or  (B) Officer's condition entitles him to
         disability benefits under any  Benefit Plan providing  for the  payment
         thereof.


                                      -7-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



            (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction"  shall mean  (A) a reduction in the
         Base  Salary  that  is  not  an  Across-the-Board Salary  Reduction (as
         defined in  paragraph (1)  of this  subsection) and that, when combined
         with the net effect  of all prior  increases and reductions in the Base
         Salary (other  than prior  reductions that were Across-the-Board Salary
         Reductions),  results  in the  Base Salary  being less  than 80% of the
         highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been subject  pursuant to
         this Agreement  (as reflected  in the  records of  the Human  Resources
         Department) or  (B) a  reduction  in the Base Salary (whether or nor an
         Across-the-Board Salary Reduction) that,  when  combined  with  the net
         effect  of  all  prior  increases  and  reductions  in the Base  Salary
         (whether or  not  Across-the-Board  Salary  Reductions), results in the
         Base Salary being less  than 65% of  the highest  Base Salary  to which
         Officer has ever been  subject pursuant to this Agreement (as reflected
         in the records of the Human Resources Department).

            (5) "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning  given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-term Incentive Plan.

            (6) "Termination for  Cause" shall  mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of  a  dismissal by  the  Company  following (A)  Officer's
         continued  failure   to  substantially   perform  his/her   duties  and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from  Officer's
         physical or mental impairment  or incapacity)  after written demand for
         substantial  performance  is  delivered  by  the  Company  specifically
         identifying the manner  in which  the Company  believes Officer has not
         substantially  performed  his/her  duties  and  responsibilities,   (B)
         Officer's engaging in fraud or  other misconduct that  is injurious  to
         the  Company,  monetarily  or  otherwise,  (C)  Officer's  engaging  in
         insubordination, (D) Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with,
         any written policy, guideline, rule or regulation of the Company  which
         specifically  provides  that  Officer  may  be  dismissed  (or  his/her
         employment  terminated)  as a  consequence of  any  such  violation  or
         failure to comply, (E) Officer's conviction  of (or  plea of  guilty or
         nolo contendere to a charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor
         involving  moral turpitude  or financial  misconduct, or (F) a material
         violation by  Officer of  the provisions of  Section 6. For purposes of
         clause (B) above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be
         considered "misconduct"  if done,  or omitted,  by Officer  not in good
         faith and  without  reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act,
         was in the best interest of the Company.

            (7) "Termination  for  Good  Reason"  shall  mean  a  Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary  action  by Officer  within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer  position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an  Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4)  of  this subsection),  or (C)  the failure  by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in  Section 7(h)  on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(h).

6.    Nonpublic Information.

     (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with his/her employment
with the  Company,  he has  received,  and will  continue  to  receive,  various
information regarding the Company and its business,  operations and affairs. All
such information, to the extent not publicly available other than as a result of
a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is referred to herein as
the "Nonpublic Information."

     (b) Officer  hereby  agrees  that,  from  and  after  the  date  hereof and
continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment,  he will
keep all  Nonpublic  Information  confidential  and will not,  without the prior
written  consent  of the  Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  disclose  any
Nonpublic  Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his/her services to the Company
hereunder;  provided,  however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent  Officer from (1)  disclosing  any  Nonpublic  Information  to any other
employee of the Company or to any  representative  or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably  necessary or  appropriate  (in Officer's  judgment) in
connection   with  the   performance   by   Officer   of   his/her   duties  and


                                      -8-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



responsibilities  hereunder  or (2)  disclosing  any  Nonpublic  Information  as
required by applicable  law,  rule,  regulation or legal process (but only after
compliance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

     (c) If Officer is  requested pursuant  to, or required by,  applicable law,
rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic Information, Officer
will notify Parent  promptly so that the Company may seek a protective  order or
other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole discretion,  waive compliance
with the terms of this Section,  and Officer will fully cooperate in any attempt
by the Company to obtain any such protective  order or other remedy.  If no such
protective order or other remedy is obtained,  or the Company waives  compliance
with the terms of this  Section,  Officer  will  furnish or  disclose  only that
portion of the Nonpublic  Information  as is legally  required and will exercise
all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential  treatment
will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is so disclosed.

7.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

     (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any
payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise,
and the  amount  of any  payment  provided  for in this  Agreement  shall not be
reduced by any  compensation  earned by Officer as the result of  employment  by
another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or otherwise.

     (b) Interest.  Until paid,  all past due amounts required to be paid by the
Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement  shall bear interest at
the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent  (12%),  or (2) the
prime rate  announced  from time to time by the  Company's  primary bank lender,
plus three percent (3%), both subject to the maximum rate allowed by law.

     (c) Equitable Relief Available.  Officer acknowledges  that remedies at law
may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or threatened breach
of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly, without prejudice to any
other rights or remedies otherwise available to the Company, Officer agrees that
the Company shall have the right to equitable and  injunctive  relief to prevent
any breach of the  provisions  of Section 6, as well as to such damages or other
relief as may be  available  to the Company by reason of any such breach as does
occur.

     (d) At-Will Employment.  Officer acknowledges  that his/her employment with
the Company is strictly "at-will",  and that nothing contained in this Agreement
shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of the Company, or
interfere  in any way  with the  rights  of the  Company  to  terminate  his/her
employment at any time for any reason.  Officer further  acknowledges  that this
Agreement is not an "employment  agreement" or "employment contract" (written or
otherwise),  as either term is used or defined in, or  contemplated by or under,
(i) the Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or agreement to
which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common or case law.

     (e) Breach Not a Defense.  The representations and covenants on the part of
Officer  contained  in  Section  6  shall  be  construed  as  ancillary  to  and
independent of any other provision of this  Agreement,  and the existence of any
claim or cause  of  action  of  Officer  against  the  Company  or any  officer,
director,  stockholder or representative of the Company,  whether  predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise,  shall not constitute a defense to the  enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

     (f) Notices.  Any notice or other  communication called for by the terms of
this  Agreement  shall be in  writing  and  either  delivered  personally  or by
registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt  requested) and
shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses (or at such other
address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

          (1)  If to Parent or the Company, 5205 North O'Connor Boulevard, Suite
      900, Irving, Texas 75039, Attention:  General Counsel.

          (2)  If to Officer,  the address  of Officer set forth below Officer's
      signature on the signature page of this Agreement.


                                      -9-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



     (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent.  Parent shall  require any successor
(whether  direct or  indirect)  to all or  substantially  all of the business or
assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger, consolidation, sale
of  assets  or  otherwise),  by  a  written  agreement  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to  Officer,   to  expressly  assume  and  agree  to  perform  the
obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company  would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

     (h)  Assignment.

          (1) Except  pursuant to  an assumption  by a  successor  described  in
      subsection (h) of this Section, the rights and obligations of  the Company
      pursuant to this Agreement  may not  be assigned,  in whole or in part, by
      the Company  to any  other person  or entity  without  the express written
      consent of Officer.

          (2) The rights and obligations of  Officer  pursuant to this Agreement
      may not be assigned,  in whole or in part,  by Officer to any other person
      or entity without the express written consent of the Board.

     (i) Successors.  This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the
benefit of, the  Company,  Officer and their  respective  successors,  permitted
assigns, personal and legal representatives,  executors, administrators,  heirs,
distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

     (j) Amendment and Waivers.  Except as hereinafter provided, no provision of
this Agreement may be amended or otherwise  modified,  and no right of any party
to this Agreement may be waived,  unless such amendment,  modification or waiver
is agreed to in a written  instrument  signed by Officer  and  Parent.  Unless a
Change of Control  shall  have  occurred  or be pending or under  consideration,
Parent  may  amend,  modify,  or waive  any  provision  of, or  terminate,  this
Agreement upon sixty (60) days notice  without the consent of Officer;  provided
that any such amendment,  modification,  waiver or termination  shall be made to
all  severance  agreements of Parent  covering all officers of Parent  similarly
situated to Officer.  No waiver by either party hereto of, or  compliance  with,
any condition or provision of this  Agreement to be performed by the other party
hereto  shall  be  deemed  a waiver  of  similar  or  dissimilar  provisions  or
conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.

     (k) Complete Agreement.  This Agreement  replaces and  supersedes all prior
agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof,
and the provisions of this Agreement  constitute the complete  understanding and
agreement  among the parties with respect to the subject matter  hereof,  and no
agreements  or  representations,  oral or  otherwise,  express or implied,  with
respect to the subject  matter  hereof have been made by either  party which are
not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

     (l) Governing Law.  THIS AGREEMENT  IS BEING  MADE AND  EXECUTED IN, AND IS
INTENDED  TO BE  PERFORMED  IN,  THE  STATE OF  TEXAS  AND  SHALL  BE  GOVERNED,
CONSTRUED,  INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE  LAWS OF
THE STATE OF TEXAS.

     (m) Attorney Fees.  All legal  fees and other  costs incurred by Officer in
connection  with  the  resolution  of any  dispute  or  controversy  under or in
connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer, if
such dispute or controversy  is resolved in favor of Officer.  The Company shall
be  responsible  for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs  incurred by
the Company in  connection  with the  resolution  of any dispute or  controversy
under or in connection with this  Agreement,  regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

     (n) Counterparts.  This Agreement may  be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original,  but all of which together will
constitute one and the same agreement.


                                      -10-
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>



     (o) Construction.  The captions of the Sections, subsections and paragraphs
of this  Agreement  have been inserted as a matter of  convenience  of reference
only and shall not affect the  meaning  or  construction  of any of the terms or
provisions of this Agreement.  Unless  otherwise  specified,  references in this
Agreement  to  a  "Section,"   "subsection,"   "paragraph,"   "subparagraph"  or
"Schedule"  shall be considered to be  references  to the  appropriate  Section,
subsection,   paragraph,   subparagraph  or  Schedule,   respectively,  of  this
Agreement.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  all  words  used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular  words shall  include the plural and all plural words shall include
the  singular.  As used in this  Agreement,  the  term  "including"  shall  mean
"including, but not limited to."

     (p) Validity and Severability.  If any term  or provision of this Agreement
is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present or future laws
effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or provision shall be
fully  severable,  (2) this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such
term or  provision  had never  comprised  a part of this  Agreement  and (3) the
remaining  terms and provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,  invalid or unenforceable  term
or provision or by its severance from this  Agreement.  Furthermore,  in lieu of
such illegal,  invalid or unenforceable term or provision,  there shall be added
automatically  as a part of this  Agreement,  a term or  provision as similar to
such illegal,  invalid or unenforceable term or provision as may be possible and
be legal, valid and enforceable.

     (q) Execution by Company.  The execution of this Agreement by Company shall
constitute  an  acceptance  of, and an  agreement  to be bound by, the terms and
provisions  of this  Agreement  by Company  and each of its direct and  indirect
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Company hereby agrees to cause each of its direct
and indirect wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  now and in the future, to fully comply
with all  obligations  applicable  to the Company  pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)



                                      -11-

                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials


<PAGE>





     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                             --------------------------------------------
                        Name:  Scott D. Sheffield
                        Title: Chief Executive Officer and Chairman




                        OFFICER:




                        -------------------------------------------------

                        Address:


                        -------------------------------------------------

                        -------------------------------------------------



              [Signature Page - Severance Agreement - Page 1 of 1]


<PAGE>



                                   Schedule A

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT


NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment offered to me under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.




Date signed:
             ------------------            --------------------------------
                                           Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             ------------------            --------------------------------
                                           Signature of Officer

<PAGE>


Exhibit A
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Name                       Title                                             Location
- -----------------          -------------------------------------------       ------------------------
<S>                        <C>                                               <C>
Richard P. Dealy           Executive Vice President and Chief Financial      Irving, Texas
Timothy L. Dove            President and Chief Operating Officer             Irving, Texas
Marcelo D. Guiscardo       Vice President - International                    Buenos Aires, Argentina
William F. Hannes          Vice President - Engineering and
                           Development                                       Irving, Texas
Darin Holderness           Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer       Irving, Texas
Frank E. Hopkins           Vice President - Investor Relations               Irving, Texas
David McManus              Vice President - International Operations         London, England
Susan A. Spratlen          Vice President - Corporate Communications         Irving, Texas
Jay P. Still               Vice President - Western Division                 Denver, Colorado
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1017.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.17
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.17

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance Agreement ("Agreement")  is entered into,  effective January
1,  2005,  among  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  a Delaware  corporation
("Parent"),  Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation that is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Company"),  and Kenneth H. Sheffield,  Jr.
("Officer").  As used in this  Agreement,  the term "Company" shall be deemed to
include Company and its direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1. Position and Duties.  Officer shall initially serve Company as President
- - Pioneer Natural  Resources  Alaska,  Inc.,  and, in so doing,  shall report to
Company's  Board of  Directors  (the  "Board"),  Company's  President  and chief
executive officer (the "Chief Executive Officer") or such officers of Company as
is prescribed by Company's  bylaws,  by resolutions of the Board or by direction
of the Chief Executive Officer. Officer shall have supervision and control over,
and responsibility for, such management and operational functions of the Company
currently  assigned  to such  position,  and shall have such other or  different
functions,  powers and duties  (including  holding officer positions with one or
more  subsidiaries  of Company),  as may from time to time be  prescribed by the
Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or any other Company officer to whom Officer
reports,  so long as such  functions,  powers  and  duties  are  reasonable  and
customary for a serving an enterprise  comparable to Company.  Officer's failure
to accept and perform any such other or  different  functions,  powers or duties
shall be  deemed  to be a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of
Officer, and shall not constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion  of  Efforts.  So long as Officer  is  serving  Company in the
capacities  described  in  Section 1, he shall  devote his full time,  skill and
attention and his best efforts during normal  business hours to the business and
affairs of the  Company to the extent  necessary  to  discharge  faithfully  and
efficiently  his duties and  responsibilities,  except for usual,  ordinary  and
customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or other disability, or
such  periods  of leave as are  approved  in  writing  by the Board or the Chief
Executive  Officer.  The  provisions  of this Section  shall not be construed to
prevent Officer from making  investments in other businesses or enterprises,  so
long as such  investments  do not  violate  the  Company's  conflict of interest
policies or require the  provision of services by Officer to such  businesses or
enterprises to an extent that would  interfere in any material  respect with the
performance of Officer's duties and responsibilities to the Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary. As compensation for Officer's services, the
Company shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per
annum (the "Base Salary"). The Base Salary shall be payable in substantially
equal semi-monthly installments. The Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of Parent (the "Compensation Committee") or Chief Executive Officer
may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant such increases, or effect
such reductions, in the Base Salary as the Compensation Committee or Chief

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -1-


<PAGE>



Executive Officer consider appropriate in accordance with such compensation
guidelines and policies as they may establish from time to time. The Base Salary
applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's employment with the
Company, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall be that as
reflected in the records of the Human Resources Department.

         (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in
addition to the Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the
Compensation Committee or Chief Executive Officer may award in accordance with
such compensation guidelines and policies as they may establish from time to
time.

         (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or other arrangement
made available now or in the future by the Company to the officers of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms, conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

         (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the
number of paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from
time to time for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given
by the Company to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer shall  initially be required to perform his duties
and  responsibilities  hereunder  at  Company's  offices  located in  Anchorage,
Alaska.   If  the   Company   requires   Officer  to  perform   his  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of  Anchorage,  Alaska,  (a "New  Location")  and,  within 30 days  after
receiving   notice  thereof,   Officer  accepts  such  relocation   rather  than
terminating  his  employment  with the  Company  pursuant to Section  5(a),  the
Company shall pay to Officer, or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of
reasonably  detailed evidence thereof),  such sums as are provided for under the
Relocation  Policy for Exempt  Employees as  established  by Company.  Officer's
failure to accept such relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,
shall be  deemed  to be a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of
Officer, and shall not constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5. Termination of Employment.

         (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his officer position with Company) shall be terminated upon the
death, Disability (as defined in subsection (g)(3) of this Section) or Normal
Retirement (as defined in subsection (g)(6) of this Section) of Officer. In
addition, Officer's employment with the Company (including his officer position
with Company) may be terminated at any time and for any reason as a result of a
dismissal by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by Officer. Any
such termination of employment is referred to herein as a "Termination of
Employment."

         (b) Notice of Termination.

             (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of Officer's Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer
         in a written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the
         opinion of the Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such
         Disability is the reason for the Termination of Employment.

             (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of Officer's Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to
         Company by a written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that
         Officer is retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of
         Employment, which shall be not less than 30 days following the date
         such notice is received by Company.

             (3) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's
         Disability) shall be communicated by the Company to Officer by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in the
         Company's opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a
         Termination for Cause (as defined in subsection (g)(7) of this Section)
         and, if so, shall set forth in reasonable detail facts and
         circumstances constituting a basis for such Termination for Cause.

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -2-


<PAGE>



             (4) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Company by
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in
         Officer's opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a
         Termination for Good Reason (as defined in subsection (g)(8) of this
         Section) and, if so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
         circumstances claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good
         Reason. Such notice shall also specify the date of such Termination of
         Employment, which (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute
         a Termination for Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following
         the date such notice is received by Company.

         (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this
Agreement, the date of a Termination of Employment shall be (1) if the
Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, the date of such
death, (2) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's
Disability, the date on which the notice described in subsection (b)(1) of this
Section is received by Officer, (3) if the Termination of Employment is the
result of Officer's Normal Retirement, the date specified in the notice
described in subsection (b)(2) of this Section, (4) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of
Officer's Disability), the date on which the notice described in subsection
(b)(3) of this Section is received by the Officer, or such later date as may be
specified by the Company in such notice, and (5) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result
of Officer's Normal Retirement), the date specified in the notice described in
subsection (b)(4) of this Section, or such earlier date as the Company may
specify, provided that if such date specified by Company is less than 30 days
following the date Company received notice from Employee, then Company agrees to
pay Officer an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary,
which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
Employment.

         (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The
provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
applicable Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of
or at any time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection (g)(2) of
this Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of this Section shall
apply only if such Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control.

             (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his estate or personal representative):

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the first normal semi-monthly Base Salary
                  payment date immediately succeeding the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as reflected in the records of the Human
                  Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in cash
                  within 30 days following the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits to
         Officer:

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -3-


<PAGE>



                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as reflected in the records of the Human
                  Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in cash on
                  the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his immediate family
                  under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and constitutes
         a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement) and does
         not constitute a Termination for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the first normal semi-monthly Base Salary
                  payment date immediately succeeding the date of such
                  Termination of Employment; and

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

         (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any such Termination of Employment occurring at the
time of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.

             (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result of a
         voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -4-


<PAGE>



                       (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.00 times
                  Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as reflected in the records of
                  the Human Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in
                  cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (C) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his immediate family
                  under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (e)(1)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason or for
         Failure to Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         subsection (e) to the contrary, if the Termination of Employment (i) is
         the result of a voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a
         Termination for Good Reason, and occurs at least six months, but not
         more than one year, following a Change in Control, or (ii) whether
         voluntary or involuntary, occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

             (3) Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in
Control, any accrued but unfunded retirement benefit
obligations to Officer under any then existing retirement plan shall be fully
funded to a Rabbi Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be
paid in cash on the date of such Change in Control.

         (f) Payment Contingent on Release. If, upon termination,
Officer is entitled to a payment provided in subsection (d)(2) or (e) of this
Section 5, then such payment shall be subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's
execution of a General Release Agreement in favor of the Company in
substantially the form and substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule A.

         (g) Certain Definitions. As used in this Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

             (1) "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate
         consistent with, a reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially
         all officers of Company.

             (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence,
         following the Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:
         (i) an event that would constitute a Change in control as that term is
         defined in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor
         plan thereto, or (ii) consummation of a Business Combination not
         otherwise constituting a Change in Control but, pursuant to which the
         Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the execution
         of the initial agreement is removed from, or replaced in, such capacity
         with respect to the corporation resulting from such Business
         Combination.

             (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or
         mental impairment or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the
         opinion of the Board, either (A) Officer is unable to continue to

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -5-


<PAGE>



         perform his duties and responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's
         condition entitles him to disability benefits under any Benefit Plan
         providing for the payment thereof.

             (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions
         in the Base Salary (other than prior reductions that were
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 80% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as reflected in the records of the
         Human Resources Department) or (B) a reduction in the Base Salary
         (whether or not an Across-the-Board Salary Reduction) that, when
         combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions in
         the Base Salary (whether or not Across-the-Board Salary Reductions),
         results in the Base Salary being less than 65% of the highest Base
         Salary to which Officer has ever been subject pursuant to this
         Agreement (as reflected in the records of the Human Resources
         Department).

             (5) "Incumbent Board" means the individuals who, as
         of the date of this Agreement, constitute the board of directors of
         Parent and any other individual who becomes a director of Parent after
         that date and whose election or nomination for election by Parent's
         shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
         directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
         purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs
         as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to
         the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened
         solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
         than the Incumbent Board.

             (6)  "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning  given to such
         term in Section  1.29 of the  Long-Term Incentive Plan.

             (7) "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination
         of Employment as a result of a dismissal by the Company following (A)
         Officer's continued failure to substantially perform his duties and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from Officer's
         physical or mental impairment or incapacity) after written demand for
         substantial performance is delivered by the Company specifically
         identifying the manner in which the Company believes Officer has not
         substantially performed his duties and responsibilities, (B) Officer's
         engaging in fraud or other misconduct that is injurious to the Company,
         monetarily or otherwise, (C) Officer's engaging in insubordination, (D)
         Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with, any written policy,
         guideline, rule or regulation of the Company which specifically
         provides that Officer may be dismissed (or his employment terminated)
         as a consequence of any such violation or failure to comply, (E)
         Officer's conviction of (or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a
         charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor involving moral
         turpitude or financial misconduct, or (F) a material violation by
         Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For purposes of subsection (B)
         above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be considered
         "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by Officer not in good faith and
         without reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act, was in the
         best interest of the Company.

             (8) "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a
         Termination of Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer
         within 30 days after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the
         Officer to an officer position junior to the officer position specified
         in Section 1 or to a non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the
         failure by Parent to obtain the assumption agreement described in
         Section 7(g) on or prior to a succession described in Section 7(g).

     6.  Nonpublic Information.

         (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with his
employment with the Company, he has received, and will continue to receive,
various information regarding the Company and its business, operations and
affairs. All such information, to the extent not publicly available other than

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -6-


<PAGE>



as a result of a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

         (b) Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof
and continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment, he
will keep all Nonpublic Information confidential and will not, without the prior
written consent of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, disclose any
Nonpublic Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his services to the Company
hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent Officer from (1) disclosing any Nonpublic Information to any other
employee of the Company or to any representative or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate (in Officer's judgment) in
connection with the performance by Officer of his duties and responsibilities
hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic Information as required by applicable
law, rule, regulation or legal process (but only after compliance with the
provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

         (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by,
applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic
Information, Officer will notify Parent promptly so that the Company may seek a
protective order or other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole
discretion, waive compliance with the terms of this Section, and Officer will
fully cooperate in any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective
order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained,
or the Company waives compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will
furnish or disclose only that portion of the Nonpublic Information as is legally
required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is
so disclosed.

     7.  Miscellaneous Provisions.

         (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

         (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent (12%),
or (2) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Company's primary bank
lender, plus three percent (3%), both subject to the maximum rate allowed by
law.

         (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,
without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

         (d) At-Will Employment. Officer acknowledges that his
employment with the Company is strictly "at-will", and that nothing contained in
this Agreement shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of
the Company, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Company to terminate
his employment at any time for any reason. Officer further acknowledges that
this Agreement is not an "employment agreement" or "employment contract"
(written or otherwise), as either term is used or defined in, or contemplated by
or under, (i) the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or
agreement to which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common
or case law.

         (e) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.


                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -7-


<PAGE>



         (f) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

             (1) If to Parent or the Company, 5205 North O'Connor
         Boulevard, Suite 900, Irving, Texas 75039, Attention: General Counsel.

             (2) If to Officer,  the address of Officer set forth below
         Officer's signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

         (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the
business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), to expressly assume and agree to
perform the obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this
Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company
would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.

         (h)  Assignment.

             (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
         described in subsection (g) of this Section, the rights and obligations
         of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole
         or in part, by the Company to any other person or entity without the
         express written consent of Officer.

             (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant to
         this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer to
         any other person or entity without the express written consent of the
         Board.

         (i) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall
inure to the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,
permitted assigns, personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

         (j) Amendments and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no
provision of this Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, and no right
of any party to this Agreement may be waived, unless such amendment,
modification or waiver is agreed to in a written instrument signed by Officer,
Parent and Company. Unless a Change of Control shall have occurred or be pending
or contemplated, Parent and Company may amend, modify, or waive any provision
of, or terminate, this Agreement upon sixty (60) days notice without the consent
of Officer; provided that any such amendment, modification, waiver or
termination shall be made to all severance agreements of the Company covering
all officers of the Company similarly situated to Officer. No waiver by either
party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this
Agreement to be performed by the other party hereto shall be deemed a waiver of
similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or
subsequent time.

         (k) Complete Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes
all prior agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and the provisions of this Agreement constitute the complete
understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and no agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or
implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either
party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

         (l) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED
IN, AND IS INTENDED TO BE PERFORMED IN, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED, CONSTRUED, INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

         (m) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under or
in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer,
if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The Company
shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs incurred

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -8-


<PAGE>



by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy
under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

         (n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

         (o) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections
and paragraphs of this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this Agreement to a "Section," "subsection," "paragraph," "subparagraph" or
"Schedule" shall be considered to be references to the appropriate Section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or Schedule, respectively, of this
Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, all words used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular words shall include the plural and all plural words shall include
the singular. As used in this Agreement, the term "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."

         (p) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present
or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or
provision shall be fully severable, (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced as if such term or provision had never comprised a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,
invalid or unenforceable term or provision or by its severance from this
Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

         (q) Execution by Parent and Company. The execution of this
Agreement by Parent and Company shall constitute an acceptance of, and an
agreement to be bound by, the terms and provisions of this Agreement by Company
and each of its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Parent and
Company hereby agree to cause each of its direct and indirect wholly-owned
subsidiaries, now and in the future, to fully comply with all obligations
applicable to the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

                                      -9-


<PAGE>


         In witness whereof, the parties have executed this Agreement effective
as of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:  /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                            ------------------------------------
                        Name:  Timothy L. Dove
                        Title: President and Chief Operating Officer


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.




                        By:  /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                            -------------------------------------
                        Name:  Timothy L. Dove
                        Title: President and Chief Operating Officer


                        OFFICER:



                          /s/ Kenneth H. Sheffield, Jr.
                        -----------------------------------------
                        Kenneth H. Sheffield, Jr.

                        Address:


                        -----------------------------------------

                        -----------------------------------------

                                                                         /s/khs
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

                                      -10-



<PAGE>





                                   SCHEDULE A

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT

NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit Protection Act, if applicable, you are allowed at least 45 days from the
date of your receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to
consider  the offer made to you and to return an  executed  copy of this form to
the Vice President  Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this
form, you have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under Section 5(d)(2) of the Severance Agreement, I hereby release
and  discharge  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  and its  subsidiaries  and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected with, or relating in any way to the termination of my
employment  with the  Company.  Further in  consideration  of the  payments  and
benefits  offered to me under the Severance  Agreement,  I acknowledge and agree
that the  Released  Parties may recover from me any loss,  including  attorney's
fees and costs of  defending  against  any claim  brought  by me,  that they may
suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement offered to me,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.

     I  acknowledge  that I  initially  executed  a General  Release  Agreement,
containing the same terms and conditions as this General Release Agreement, more
than seven days prior to the date appearing below and placed the General Release
Agreement in the mail  addressed to the Company.  I further  acknowledge  that I
have had at least  seven  days  since the date of  execution  of the  originally
executed  General  Release  Agreement  in  which to  reconsider  and  revoke  my
agreement  to the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this  General  Release
Agreement.


Date signed:
             -------------------       -------------------------------------
                                       Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             -------------------       ------------------------------------
                                       Signature of Officer


<PAGE>







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1018.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.18
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.18

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into,  effective
December 1, 2000,  between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  and Chris J. Cheatwood (the "Officer").  As used in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1.  Position and Duties.  Officer shall  initially  serve Company as Senior
Vice President - Exploration,  and, in so doing, shall report to Company's Board
of  Directors  (the  "Board"),  Company's  Chief  Executive  Officer (the "Chief
Executive  Officer") or such  officers of Company as is  prescribed by Company's
bylaws,  by  resolutions  of the Board or by  direction  of the Chief  Executive
Officer.  Officer shall have  supervision  and control over, and  responsibility
for, such management and operational functions of the Company currently assigned
to such  position,  and shall have such other or  different  functions,  powers,
duties and  responsibilities  (including  holding officer  positions with one or
more  subsidiaries  of Parent),  as may from time to time be  prescribed  by the
Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any other  Company  officer  to whom
Officer reports, so long as such functions, powers and duties are reasonable and
customary  for a Senior  Vice  President  -  Exploration  serving an  enterprise
comparable  to Company.  Employee's  failure to accept and perform such other or
different  functions,  powers or duties shall be deemed to be a  Termination  of
Employment  by  voluntary  action  of  Employee,  and  shall  not  constitute  a
Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described in Section 1, he/she shall devote his/her full time, skill
and  attention  and his/her best efforts  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and  affairs  of the  Company  to the extent  necessary  to  discharge
faithfully  and  efficiently  his/her  duties and  responsibilities,  except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary.  As compensation  for Officer's  services,  the Company
shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per annum (the
"Base  Salary").  The  Base  Salary  shall be  payable  in  substantially  equal
semi-monthly  installments.   The  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  (the
"Compensation  Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant
such  increases,  or  effect  such  reductions,   in  the  Base  Salary  as  the
Compensation   Committee   considers   appropriate   in  accordance   with  such

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       -1-


<PAGE>


compensation  guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The
Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's  employment
with the Company,  commencing on the effective date of this Agreement,  shall be
identified on Schedule A attached hereto, which shall be amended periodically to
reflect any increases or reductions effected by the Compensation Committee.

        (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in addition
to the Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the Compensation
Committee may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies
as it may establish from time to time.

        (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or other arrangement
made available now or in the future by the Company to the officers of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms, conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

        (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the
number of paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from
time to time for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given
by the Company to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall  initially  be required to perform  his/her
duties and  responsibilities  hereunder at Company's  offices located in Irving,
Texas.  If  the  Company   requires   Officer  to  perform  his/her  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of Irving,  Texas (a "New  Location") and, within 30 days after receiving
notice thereof,  Officer accepts such relocation rather than terminating his/her
employment  with the Company  pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to
Officer,  or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed
evidence thereof), such sums as are provided for under the Relocation Policy for
Exempt  Employees as  established by Company.  Officer's  failure to accept such
relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,  shall be deemed to be
a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

5. Termination of Employment.

        (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his/her officer position with Company) shall be terminated upon the
death, Disability (as defined in subsection (f)(3) of this Section) or Normal
Retirement (as defined in subsection (f)(5) of this Section) of Officer. In
addition, Officer's employment with the Company (including his/her officer
position with Company) may be terminated at any time and for any reason as a
result of a dismissal by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by
Officer. Any such termination of employment is referred to herein as a
"Termination of Employment."

        (b) Notice of Termination.

            (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the opinion of the
         Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

            (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to Company by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that Officer is
         retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than 30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Company.

            (3)  Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a dismissal
         by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) shall be
         communicated by the Company to Officer by a written notice thereof.
         Such notice shall state whether or not (in the Company's opinion) the
         Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for Cause (as

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -2-


<PAGE>


         defined in subsection (f)(6) of this Section) and, if so, shall set
         forth in reasonable detail facts and circumstances constituting a basis
         for such Termination for Cause.

            (4)  Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Company by written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in Officer's
         opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in subsection (f)(7) of this Section) and, if
         so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason. Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such Termination of Employment, which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following the date such
         notice is received by Company.

        (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this
Agreement, the date of a Termination of Employment shall be (1) if the
Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, the date of such
death, (2) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's
Disability, the date on which the notice described in subsection (b)(1) of this
Section is received by Officer, (3) if the Termination of Employment is the
result of Officer's Normal Retirement, the date specified in the notice
described in subsection (b)(2) of this Section, (4) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of
Officer's Disability), the date on which the notice described in subsection
(b)(3) of this Section is received by the Officer, or such later date as may be
specified by the Company in such notice, and (5) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result
of Officer's Normal Retirement), the date specified in the notice described in
subsection (b)(4) of this Section, or such earlier date as the Company may
specify, provided that if such date specified by Company is less than 30 days
following the date Company received notice from Employee, then Company agrees to
pay officer an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of Officer's Base Salary,
which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
Employment.

        (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The
provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
such Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of or at
any time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection (f)(2) of this
Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of this Section shall apply
only if such Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control.

            (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his/her estate or personal representative):

                      (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment;

                      (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                      (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which amount
                  shall be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of
                  such Termination of Employment.

            (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -3-


<PAGE>


         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits to
         Officer:

                      (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                      (B) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                      (C) A lump sum amount equal to one full
                  year's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which
                  amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment;

                      (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and Officer's immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                      (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

            (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and constitutes
         a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement) and does
         not constitute a Termination for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                      (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment; and

                      (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

            (4) Payment Contingent on Release. If Officer's
         Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control (and only in
         that event), and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided
         in subsection (d)(2) of this Section, then such payment shall be
         subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General
         Release Agreement in favor of the Company in substantially the form and
         substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule B.

        (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any such Termination of Employment occurring at the
time of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.

            (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result of a

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -4-


<PAGE>

         voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to
         Officer:

                      (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                      (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.99 times
                  the sum of (i) Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on
                  the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified on
                  Schedule A), plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's
                  targeted bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for
                  Officer, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment;

                      (C) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any employee Benefit Plan
                  or other arrangement made available now or in the future by
                  the Company to its employees, through and including the date
                  of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan;

                      (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his/her immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                      (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (e)(1)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

            (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason or for
         Failure to Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         subsection (e) to the contrary, if the Termination of Employment (i) is
         the result of a voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a
         Termination for Good Reason, and occurs at least six months, but not
         more than one year, following a Change in Control, or (ii) whether
         voluntary or involuntary, occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his/her duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

            (3) Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                      (A) If any portion of such compensation
                  constitutes a parachute payment (a "Payment") and is subject
                  to the Excise Tax (hereinafter defined), then Company shall,
                  in addition to providing such compensation, pay the Gross-Up
                  Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer in the manner
                  described below. For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "Excise
                  Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of
                  the Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer
                  with respect to such Excise Tax, and (ii) "Gross-Up Payment"
                  shall mean, with respect to any compensation provided to the
                  Officer by Company (including without limitation the payments
                  provided for under this Agreement and any payments to the
                  Officer under any employee benefit plan, including without
                  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan, or other
                  arrangement) that is subject to the Excise Tax, an amount
                  that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment
                  for all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -5-


<PAGE>


                  or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes) to which the
                  Gross-Up Payment is subject (including the Excise Tax to which
                  the Gross-Up Payment is subject), is equal to the amount of
                  the Excise Tax to which such compensation is subject. For
                  purposes of determining the amount of any Gross-Up Payment,
                  Officer shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the
                  highest marginal rate of taxation and state and local taxes,
                  if applicable, at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the
                  state and locality of residence of the Officer on the Date of
                  Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
                  taxes that could be obtained from deduction of such state and
                  local taxes, if any.

                      (B) Subject to the provisions of subsection
                  5(e)(3)(C), all determinations required to be made under this
                  subsection 5(e)(3), including whether and when a Gross-Up
                  Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and
                  the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
                  determination, shall be made by the accounting firm which
                  performed the audit of the Company for the year preceding the
                  year in which the Change in Control occurred (the "Accounting
                  Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations
                  both to the Company and the Officer within 15 business days of
                  the receipt of notice from the Officer that there has been a
                  Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company.
                  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant
                  or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the
                  Change in Control, the Officer shall appoint another
                  nationally recognized accounting firm to make the
                  determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall
                  then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All
                  fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely
                  by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant
                  to this subsection 5(e)(3), shall be paid by the Company to
                  the Officer within five days of the receipt of the Accounting
                  Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that
                  no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer, it shall furnish the
                  Officer with a written opinion that failure to report the
                  Excise Tax on the Officer's applicable federal income or
                  excise tax return would not result in the imposition of a
                  negligence or similar penalty. Any determination by the
                  Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the
                  Officer.

                      (C) The Officer shall notify the Company in
                  writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if
                  successful, would require the payment by the Company of the
                  Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given no later
                  than ten business days after the Officer is informed in
                  writing of such claim. The Officer shall not pay such claim
                  prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the
                  date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such
                  shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes
                  with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies
                  the Officer in writing prior to the expiration of such period
                  that it desires to contest such claim, (i) the Officer shall
                  accept legal representation with respect to such claim by an
                  attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (ii) cooperate
                  with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest
                  such claim, and (iii) permit the Company to participate in any
                  proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, the
                  Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
                  (including legal and accounting fees and additional interest
                  and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and
                  shall indemnify and hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax
                  basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest
                  and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of
                  such representation and payment of costs and expenses. The
                  Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with
                  such contest to the extent relating to issues impacting
                  whether a Gross-Up Payment is payable hereunder. The Officer
                  shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be,
                  any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any
                  other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                      (D) If any such claim referred to in
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(C) is made by the Internal Revenue Service
                  and the Company does not request the Officer to contest the
                  claim within the 30-day period following notice of the claim,
                  the Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of any
                  Gross-Up Payment owed to the Officer, but not previously paid
                  pursuant to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately upon the
                  expiration of such 30-day period. If any such claim is made by
                  the Internal Revenue Service and the Company requests the
                  Officer to contest such claim, the Company shall pay to the

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -6-


<PAGE>


                  Officer the amount of any Gross-Up Payment owed to the
                  Officer, but not previously paid under the provisions of
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(B), within five days of a Final
                  Determination of the liability of the Officer for such Excise
                  Tax. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Final Determination"
                  shall be deemed to occur with respect to a claim when (i)
                  there is a decision, judgment, decree or other order by any
                  court of competent jurisdiction, which decision, judgment,
                  decree or other order has become final, i.e., all allowable
                  appeals have been exhausted by either party to the action,
                  (ii) there is a closing agreement made under Section 7121 of
                  the Code, or (iii) the time for instituting a claim for refund
                  has expired, or if a claim was filed, the time for instituting
                  suit with respect thereto has expired.

            (4) Letter of Credit. Following a Change in Control,
         Parent (within 10 days following receipt of Officer's written request
         therefor), at its sole cost and expense, shall post an irrevocable
         letter of credit with a banking institution reasonably acceptable to
         Officer in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash
         payments that would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of
         paragraph (1) of this subsection if the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection were to become applicable. Such letter of credit shall
         contain provisions making the funds available thereunder to Officer by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws) drawn at sight by presentation by Officer to the
         applicable banking institution of a written statement to the effect
         that the Company is in default on a payment to be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (setting forth the amount of
         such payment in default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

            (5)  Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement benefit obligations to Officer under
         any then existing retirement plan shall be fully funded to a Rabbi
         Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

        (f) Certain Definitions. As used in the Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

            (1) "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate
         consistent with, a reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially
         all officers of Company.

            (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence,
         following the Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:
         (i) an event that would constitute a Change in control as that term is
         defined in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor
         plan thereto, or (ii) Consummation of a Business Combination not
         otherwise constituting a Change in Control but, pursuant to which the
         Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the execution
         of the initial agreement is removed from, or replaced in, such capacity
         with respect to the corporation resulting from such Business
         Combination.

            (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or
         mental impairment or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the
         opinion of the Board, either (A) Officer is unable to continue to
         perform his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's
         condition entitles him to disability benefits under any Benefit Plan
         providing for the payment thereof.

            (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions
         in the Base Salary (other than prior reductions that were
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 80% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -7-


<PAGE>


         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A) or (B)
         a reduction in the Base Salary (whether or nor an Across-the-Board
         Salary Reduction) that, when combined with the net effect of all prior
         increases and reductions in the Base Salary (whether or not
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 65% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A).

            (5)  "Normal  Retirement" shall have the meaning  given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-term Incentive Plan.

            (6)  "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of a dismissal by the Company following (A) Officer's
         continued failure to substantially perform his/her duties and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from Officer's
         physical or mental impairment or incapacity) after written demand for
         substantial performance is delivered by the Company specifically
         identifying the manner in which the Company believes Officer has not
         substantially performed his/her duties and responsibilities, (B)
         Officer's engaging in fraud or other misconduct that is injurious to
         the Company, monetarily or otherwise, (C) Officer's engaging in
         insubordination, (D) Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with,
         any written policy, guideline, rule or regulation of the Company which
         specifically provides that Officer may be dismissed (or his/her
         employment terminated) as a consequence of any such violation or
         failure to comply, (E) Officer's conviction of (or plea of guilty or
         nolo contendere to a charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor
         involving moral turpitude or financial misconduct, or (F) a material
         violation by Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For purposes of
         clause (B) above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be
         considered "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by Officer not in good
         faith and without reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act,
         was in the best interest of the Company.

            (7)  "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the failure by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in Section 7(h) on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(h).

     6.  Nonpublic Information.

        (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with
his/her employment with the Company, he has received, and will continue to
receive, various information regarding the Company and its business, operations
and affairs. All such information, to the extent not publicly available other
than as a result of a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

        (b) Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof
and continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment, he
will keep all Nonpublic Information confidential and will not, without the prior
written consent of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, disclose any
Nonpublic Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his/her services to the Company
hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent Officer from (1) disclosing any Nonpublic Information to any other
employee of the Company or to any representative or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate (in Officer's judgment) in
connection with the performance by Officer of his/her duties and
responsibilities hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic Information as
required by applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process (but only after
compliance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

        (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by,
applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic
Information, Officer will notify Parent promptly so that the Company may seek a
protective order or other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole
discretion, waive compliance with the terms of this Section, and Officer will
fully cooperate in any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -8-


<PAGE>


order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained,
or the Company waives compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will
furnish or disclose only that portion of the Nonpublic Information as is legally
required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is
so disclosed.

     7.  Miscellaneous Provisions.

        (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

        (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent (12%),
or (2) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Company's primary bank
lender, plus three percent (3%).

        (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,
without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

        (d) At-Will Employment. Officer acknowledges that his/her
employment with the Company is strictly "at-will", and that nothing contained in
this Agreement shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of
the Company, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Company to terminate
his/her employment at any time for any reason. Officer further acknowledges that
this Agreement is not an "employment agreement" or "employment contract"
(written or otherwise), as either term is used or defined in, or contemplated by
or under, (i) the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or
agreement to which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common
or case law.

        (e) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

        (f) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

            (1)  If to Parent or the Company, 1400 Williams  Square West,  5205
         North  O'Connor  Boulevard,  Irving,  Texas 75039,  Attention: General
         Counsel.

            (2)  If to Officer, the address of Officer set forth below Officer's
         signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

        (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the
business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), by a written agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to Officer, to expressly assume and agree to perform the
obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -9-


<PAGE>



        (h)  Assignment.

            (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
         described in subsection (h) of this Section, the rights and obligations
         of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole
         or in part, by the Company to any other person or entity without the
         express written consent of Officer.

            (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant to
         this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer to
         any other person or entity without the express written consent of the
         Board.

        (i) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall
inure to the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,
permitted assigns, personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

        (j) Amendment and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no
provision of this Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, and no right
of any party to this Agreement may be waived, unless such amendment,
modification or waiver is agreed to in a written instrument signed by Officer
and Parent (and any dated and signed Schedule A, as described in subsection (p)
of this Section, shall constitute such an instrument). Unless a Change of
Control shall have occurred or be pending or under consideration, Parent may
amend, modify, or waive any provision of, or terminate, this Agreement upon
sixty (60) days notice without the consent of Officer; provided that any such
amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made to all severance
agreements of Parent covering all officers of Parent similarly situated to
Officer. No waiver by either party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition
or provision of this Agreement to be performed by the other party hereto shall
be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same
or at any prior or subsequent time.

        (k) Complete Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes
all prior agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and the provisions of this Agreement constitute the complete
understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and no agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or
implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either
party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

        (l) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED
IN, AND IS INTENDED TO BE PERFORMED IN, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED, CONSTRUED, INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

        (m) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under or
in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer,
if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The Company
shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs incurred
by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy
under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

        (n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

        (o) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections
and paragraphs of this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this Agreement to a "Section," "subsection," "paragraph," "subparagraph" or
"Schedule" shall be considered to be references to the appropriate Section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or Schedule, respectively, of this
Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, all words used in this

                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -10-


<PAGE>


Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular words shall include the plural and all plural words shall include
the singular. As used in this Agreement, the term "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."

        (p) Schedule A. Schedule A may be replaced at any time and
from time to time to reflect a change in the Base Salary; provided, however,
that no Schedule A attached hereto shall be effective unless it contains a date
and bears a signature of approval on behalf of Officer and a signature of
approval on behalf of Company; and provided further, however, that if at any
time two or more dated and signed copies of Schedule A conflict with each other,
the later dated of such copies shall control.

        (q) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present
or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or
provision shall be fully severable, (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced as if such term or provision had never comprised a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,
invalid or unenforceable term or provision or by its severance from this
Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

        (r) Execution by Company. The execution of this Agreement by
Company shall constitute an acceptance of, and an agreement to be bound by, the
terms and provisions of this Agreement by Company and each of its direct and
indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Company hereby agrees to cause each of
its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, now and in the future, to
fully comply with all obligations applicable to the Company pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)


                                                                         /s/cjc
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -11-


<PAGE>




     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                            ----------------------------------
                        Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                        Title: Executive Vice President




                        OFFICER:




                           /s/ Chris J. Cheatwood
                        --------------------------------------
                        Chris J. Cheatwood


                        Address:


                        --------------------------------------

                        --------------------------------------


              [Signature Page - Severance Agreement - Page 1 of 1]

<PAGE>





                                   Schedule A

                     Attached to Severance Agreement between
                      Pioneer Natural Resources Company and
                               Chris J. Cheatwood




BASE Salary:

         Effective Date                                Amount

         January 1, 2005                               $330,000.00





















Dated and Approved as of _______________:

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY           OFFICER:


By:   /s/ Scott D. Sheffield                /s/ Chris J. Cheatwood
   ---------------------------------        ---------------------------------
                                            Chris J. Cheatwood
Name:    Scott D. Sheffield
Title:   Chief Executive Officer and Chairman







<PAGE>



                                   Schedule B

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT

NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment offered to me under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.

Date signed:
             -----------------------        ---------------------------
                                            Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             -----------------------        ---------------------------
                                            Signature of Officer

                                      B-1


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1019.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.19
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19

                                  AMENDMENT TO
                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Amendment is dated and effective February 19, 2002, and is attached to
and  made a part of  that  certain  Severance  Agreement  ("Agreement")  between
Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Parent") and Chris J. Cheatwood  ("Officer")
dated December 1, 2000.

     In  regard  to  the  provisions   relating  to  a  Change  in  Control  and
Termination, paragraph 5(e)(1)(D) is hereby amended as follows:

              "A continuation of all health insurance coverage applicable at the
     time of such  Termination of  Employment to  Officer and  his/her immediate
     family under any Benefit Plan until such Officer  reaches the age of sixty-
     five (65), or the age upon which such Officer becomes eligible for Medicare
     benefits as determined by the Social Security Administration,  whichever is
     later ("Medicare Age");

                  "(i)  For the  first  three  years of  such  continued  health
              insurance  coverage,  the premium  charged to the Officer shall be
              the  same as  that  charged  to  parent  company  officers  of the
              successor entity or  the premium  existing prior  to the Change in
              Control, whichever is less;

                  (ii) Following the first three years  of such  extended health
              insurance  coverage  and continuing  until  such  Officer  reaches
              Medicare Age,  the premium for  such coverage  charged the Officer
              shall be  the Company's,  or its  successor's,  COBRA  premium  in
              effect during such time; and

                  (iii)  Such health  insurance coverage shall  provide benefits
              at a level  at least  comparable to  those being provided prior to
              the Change in Control,  or better if better coverage is offered to
              parent company officers of the successor entity."

     Except as to the extent modified by this Amendment, the Agreement is hereby
ratified and confirmed in all respects.


                                            PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                                            By:     /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                                 ------------------------------
                                            Name:    Mark L. Withrow
                                            Title:   Executive Vice President


                                            OFFICER


                                                /s/ Chris J. Cheatwood
                                            -----------------------------------
                                            Chris J. Cheatwood

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1020.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.20
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.20

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into,  effective
November 1,  2003, between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  and  A. R. Alameddine (the  "Officer").  As used in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1. Position and Duties.  Officer shall initially serve Company as Executive
Vice President - Worldwide Business Development,  and, in so doing, shall report
to Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), Company's Chief Executive Officer
(the "Chief Executive  Officer") or such officers of Company as is prescribed by
Company's  bylaws,  by  resolutions  of the Board or by  direction  of the Chief
Executive  Officer.  Officer  shall  have  supervision  and  control  over,  and
responsibility  for, such  management and  operational  functions of the Company
currently  assigned  to such  position,  and shall have such other or  different
functions,  powers,  duties  and  responsibilities  (including  holding  officer
positions with one or more subsidiaries of Parent),  as may from time to time be
prescribed  by the Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any other Company
officer to whom Officer  reports,  so long as such functions,  powers and duties
are reasonable and customary for a Executive Vice President - Worldwide Business
Development serving an enterprise  comparable to Company.  Employee's failure to
accept and perform such other or different functions,  powers or duties shall be
deemed to be a Termination  of Employment by voluntary  action of Employee,  and
shall not constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described in Section 1, he/she shall devote his/her full time, skill
and  attention  and his/her best efforts  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and  affairs  of the  Company  to the extent  necessary  to  discharge
faithfully  and  efficiently  his/her  duties and  responsibilities,  except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary.  As compensation  for Officer's  services,  the Company
shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per annum (the
"Base  Salary").  The  Base  Salary  shall be  payable  in  substantially  equal
semi-monthly  installments.   The  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  (the
"Compensation  Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant
such  increases,  or  effect  such  reductions,   in  the  Base  Salary  as  the
Compensation   Committee   considers   appropriate   in  accordance   with  such
compensation  guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       -1-


<PAGE>



Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's  employment
with the Company,  commencing on the effective date of this Agreement,  shall be
that as reflected in the records of the Human Resources Department.

        (b) Bonuses.  Officer shall be  entitled to receive  (in addition to the
Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the  Compensation  Committee
may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies as it may
establish from time to time.

        (c) Other Benefits.  Officer  shall be  entitled to  participate in,  or
receive  benefits under,  any employee  benefit plan or other  arrangement  made
available  now or in the  future by the  Company to the  officers  of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms,  conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

        (d) Vacations and Holidays.  Officer shall be  entitled to the number of
paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from time to time
for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given by the Company
to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall  initially  be required to perform  his/her
duties and  responsibilities  hereunder at Company's  offices located in Irving,
Texas.  If  the  Company   requires   Officer  to  perform  his/her  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of Irving,  Texas (a "New  Location") and, within 30 days after receiving
notice thereof,  Officer accepts such relocation rather than terminating his/her
employment  with the Company  pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to
Officer,  or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed
evidence thereof), such sums as are provided for under the Relocation Policy for
Exempt  Employees as  established by Company.  Officer's  failure to accept such
relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,  shall be deemed to be
a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5. Termination of Employment.

        (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company (including
his/her  officer  position  with Company)  shall be  terminated  upon the death,
Disability  (as  defined  in  subsection  (f)(3)  of  this  Section)  or  Normal
Retirement  (as defined in  subsection  (f)(5) of this  Section) of Officer.  In
addition,  Officer's  employment  with the Company  (including  his/her  officer
position  with  Company) may be  terminated  at any time and for any reason as a
result of a dismissal  by the  Company or as a result of a  voluntary  action by
Officer.  Any  such  termination  of  employment  is  referred  to  herein  as a
"Termination of Employment."

        (b) Notice of Termination.

            (1)  Any Termination of  Employment that  is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof.  Such notice  shall state that,  in the  opinion of the
         Board,  Officer is suffering from a  Disability and  such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

            (2)  Any Termination of  Employment that  is the result of Officer's
         Normal  Retirement  shall  be communicated by  Officer to  Company by a
         written  notice  thereof.  Such notice  shall  state  that  Officer  is
         retiring and shall  specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than  30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Company.

            (3) Any Termination of Employment  that is the result of a dismissal
         by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) shall be
         communicated by  the Company  to Officer  by a written  notice thereof.
         Such notice  shall state  whether or not (in the Company's opinion) the
         Termination of  Employment  constitutes  a Termination  for  Cause  (as
         defined in  subsection  (f)(6) of this  Section) and, if so,  shall set
         forth in reasonable detail facts and circumstances constituting a basis
         for such Termination for Cause.

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -2-


<PAGE>




            (4) Any Termination  of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action  by   Officer  (but  is  not  the  result  of  Officer's  Normal
         Retirement) shall  be communicated  by  Officer  to  Company by written
         notice thereof.  Such notice shall state  whether or not  (in Officer's
         opinion) the  Termination of  Employment constitutes  a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in  subsection (f)(7) of this  Section) and, if
         so, shall set  forth in reasonable  detail the  facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason.  Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such  Termination of  Employment,  which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason)  shall be  not less  than 30 days  following the date such
         notice is received by Company.

        (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this Agreement,
the date of a  Termination  of  Employment  shall be (1) if the  Termination  of
Employment is the result of Officer's  death, the date of such death, (2) if the
Termination  of  Employment is the result of Officer's  Disability,  the date on
which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(1) of this Section is received by
Officer,  (3) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's Normal
Retirement,  the date specified in the notice described in subsection  (b)(2) of
this Section,  (4) if the Termination of Employment is the result of a dismissal
by the  Company  (but is not the result of  Officer's  Disability),  the date on
which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(3) of this Section is received by
the  Officer,  or such later  date as may be  specified  by the  Company in such
notice,  and (5) if the  Termination  of Employment is the result of a voluntary
action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's  Normal  Retirement),  the
date specified in the notice described in subsection (b)(4) of this Section,  or
such  earlier  date as the  Company  may  specify,  provided  that if such  date
specified by Company is less than 30 days  following  the date Company  received
notice from  Employee,  then  Company  agrees to pay officer an amount  equal to
one-twelfth (1/12) of Officer's Base Salary,  which amount shall be paid in cash
on the date of such Termination of Employment.

        (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The provisions of
subsections  (d)(1)  and  (d)(3)  of  this  Section  shall  apply  to  any  such
Termination of Employment,  whether occurring prior to, at the time of or at any
time  following  a Change in Control (as  defined in  subsection  (f)(2) of this
Section);  and the  provisions of subsection  (d)(2) of this Section shall apply
only if such Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control.

            (1) Death,  Disability or Normal  Retirement.  If the Termination of
         Employment  is the  result of  Officer's  death,  Disability or  Normal
         Retirement,  the Company shall pay the following amounts to Officer (or
         his/her estate or personal representative):

                (A) The Base Salary  (at the rate  in effect on the date of such
         Termination of  Employment,  as reflected in  the records  of the Human
         Resources Department)  pro-rated through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be  paid in  cash on the  first normal  semi-monthly  Base Salary
         payment date immediately  succeeding  the date  of such  Termination of
         Employment;

                (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's participation in, or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base Salary (at the rate
         in effect on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected
         in the records of the Human Resources Department), which amount shall
         be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of such Termination
         of Employment.

            (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If the Termination
         of Employment  (i) is  the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is
         not the  result of  Officer's  Disability)  and  does not  constitute a
         Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result  of a  voluntary  action by

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -3-


<PAGE>



         Officer  (but is not  the result  of Officer's  Normal  Retirement) and
         constitutes a Termination for Good  Reason,  the Company  shall pay the
         following amounts, and provide the following benefits to Officer:

                (A) The Base Salary  (at the rate  in effect on the date of such
         Termination of  Employment,  as reflected in  the records  of the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the  date of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                (B) Any  amount arising  from  Officer's  participation  in,  or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                (C) A lump sum  amount equal to  one full year's Base Salary (at
         the rate in effect on the date  of such  Termination of  Employment, as
         reflected in  the records  of the  Human  Resources  Department), which
         amount  shall be  paid  in  cash on  the date  of such  Termination  of
         Employment;

                (D) For  a  period  of  one  year  following  the  date  of such
         Termination  of  Employment,  a  continuation of  all health  insurance
         coverage applicable  at the  time of  such Termination of Employment to
         Officer and Officer's immediate family under any Benefit Plan; and

                (E) With respect  to a Termination  of Employment  described  in
         subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,  if  the  date of  Termination of
         Employment  is  less  than  thirty (30)  days after the  date of notice
         thereof,  an amount equal  to one-twelfth  (1/12) of the Officer's Base
         Salary,  which  amount  shall  be paid  in  cash  on the  date of  such
         Termination of Employment.

            (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If the Termination
         of Employment  (i) is  the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is
         not the result of  Officer's Disability)  and constitutes a Termination
         for Cause or (ii) is the result  of a voluntary  action by Officer (but
         is not  the  result  of  Officer's  Normal  Retirement)  and  does  not
         constitute a  Termination for  Good  Reason,  the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                (A) The Base  Salary (at  the rate in effect on the date of such
         Termination of Employment,  as reflected  in the  records of  the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the date  of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be  paid in  cash on  the first  normal semi-monthly  Base Salary
         payment date  immediately  succeeding the date  of such  Termination of
         Employment; and

                (B) Any  amounts  arising from  Officer's participation  in,  or
         benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the date of such
         Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be payable in accordance
         with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

            (4) Payment  Contingent  on  Release.  If  Officer's  Termination of
         Employment is prior to  a Change in Control  (and only in  that event),
         and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided in subsection
         (d)(2)  of this  Section,  then such  payment shall  be subject to, and
         contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General  Release Agreement in
         favor of the Company in substantially the form and substance as the one
         attached hereto as Schedule A.

        (e) Additional  Provisions Applicable  Upon  Termination  of  Employment
Concurrent with or Following Change in Control.  The following  provisions shall
apply to any such Termination of Employment  occurring at the time of, or at any
time within one year following, a Change in Control.

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -4-


<PAGE>



            (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If the Termination
         of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal  by the  Company (but is
         not the  result  of Officer's  Disability) and  does  not  constitute a
         Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the  result of a voluntary  action by
         Officer  (but is  not the result of  Officer's Normal  Retirement)  and
         constitutes a Termination for  Good Reason,  the Company shall  pay the
         following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to Officer:

                (A) The  Base Salary  (at the rate in effect on the date of such
         Termination of Employment,  as reflected  in the  records of  the Human
         Resources Department) pro-rated through and including the date  of such
         Termination of Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount
         shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                (B) A  lump  sum  in  cash  equal to  2.99 times  the sum of (i)
         Officer's  Base  Salary  (at the  rate in  effect on  the date  of such
         Termination  of Employment,  as reflected  in the records  of the Human
         Resources Department), plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's
         targeted bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for Officer, which
         amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
         Employment;

                (C) Any amount  arising  from  Officer's  participation  in,  or
         benefits under,  any employee  Benefit Plan  or other  arrangement made
         available now or in the future by the Company to its employees, through
         and including the date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts
         shall be payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
         Benefit Plan;

                (D) For  a  period of  one  year  following  the  date  of  such
         Termination  of  Employment,  a  continuation of  all health  insurance
         coverage  applicable at  the time of such  Termination of Employment to
         Officer and his/her immediate family under any Benefit Plan; and

                (E) With  respect  to a  Termination of  Employment described in
         subsection (e)(1)(i) of this  Section,  if the  date of  Termination of
         Employment is  less  than thirty  (30) days  after the  date of  notice
         thereof, an amount equal  to one-twelfth (1/12)  of the  Officer's Base
         Salary,  which amount  shall be  paid  in  cash  on  the  date  of such
         Termination of Employment.

            (2) Voluntary  Termination  Not for  Good Reason  or for  Failure to
         Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection (e) to
         the contrary,  if the Termination of Employment  (i) is the result of a
         voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a Termination for Good
         Reason,  and occurs  at least  six  months, but not more than one year,
         following  a  Change   in  Control,   or  (ii)   whether  voluntary  or
         involuntary,  occurs at  the time of, or at any  time  within  one year
         following,  a Change in Control  and following the Company's  requiring
         the Officer to perform his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder at
         a New  Location, which  relocation is not accepted by Officer within 30
         days after  receiving notice  thereof, then  the Company  shall pay  to
         Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to subsection (d)(2)
         of this Section had such Termination of  Employment  occurred  prior to
         the Change in Control and constituted a Termination for Good Reason.

            (3) Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                (A) If any portion of such compensation  constitutes a parachute
         payment  (a "Payment")  and is  subject to  the Excise Tax (hereinafter
         defined),   then  Company  shall,   in  addition   to  providing   such
         compensation, pay the Gross-Up Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer
         in the  manner  described below.  For purposes of  this Agreement,  (i)
         "Excise Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of the
         Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer with respect
         to such  Excise  Tax,  and  (ii) "Gross-Up  Payment" shall  mean,  with
         respect  to  any  compensation  provided  to  the  Officer  by  Company
         (including  without limitation  the payments  provided for  under  this
         Agreement and any payments to  the  Officer under any  employee benefit

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -5-


<PAGE>



         plan,  including  without  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive
         Plan, or other  arrangement)  that is  subject to  the  Excise  Tax, an
         amount that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment for
         all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest or  penalties
         imposed with respect to  such taxes) to which  the Gross-Up  Payment is
         subject  (including  the Excise  Tax to  which the  Gross-Up Payment is
         subject),  is  equal  to the  amount of  the Excise  Tax to  which such
         compensation is subject.  For purposes of determining the amount of any
         Gross-Up Payment,  Officer shall  be deemed to pay federal income taxes
         at the highest  marginal rate  of taxation  and state  and local taxes,
         if applicable, at the highest marginal  rate of  taxation  in the state
         and locality of  residence of  the Officer  on the Date of Termination,
         net of the  maximum reduction  in federal  income  taxes that  could be
         obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes, if any.

                (B) Subject  to the  provisions of  subsection  5(e)(3)(C),  all
         determinations  required  to  be made  under this  subsection  5(e)(3),
         including whether and when  a Gross-Up  Payment is required, the amount
         of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving
         at such  determination,  shall  be made  by the  accounting firm  which
         performed  the  audit of the Company for the year preceding the year in
         which the  Change in  Control occurred  (the  "Accounting Firm")  which
         shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company  and
         the Officer within 15 business days of the receipt  of notice from  the
         Officer that  there has  been a  Payment,  or such  earlier time  as is
         requested by  the Company.  In the  event that  the Accounting  Firm is
         serving as accountant or auditor for the  individual,  entity or  group
         effecting the  Change in Control,  the Officer  shall  appoint  another
         nationally  recognized  accounting  firm  to  make  the  determinations
         required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then  be referred to as
         the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting
         Firm shall be  borne solely  by the Company.  Any Gross-Up  Payment, as
         determined  pursuant  to this  subsection 5(e)(3), shall be paid by the
         Company  to  the  Officer  within  five  days  of  the  receipt  of the
         Accounting Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that
         no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer,  it shall furnish  the Officer
         with a written  opinion  that failure  to  report the Excise Tax on the
         Officer's  applicable  federal income  or excise  tax return  would not
         result in  the imposition  of a  negligence  or  similar  penalty.  Any
         determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the  Company
         and the Officer.

                (C) The Officer shall notify the Company in writing of any claim
         by the Internal  Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the
         payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall
         be given no later  than ten business days after the Officer is informed
         in writing of such claim. The Officer shall not pay such claim prior to
         the expiration of  the 30-day  period following  the date  on which  it
         gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period  ending on the
         date that any payment of taxes with respect  to such claim  is due). If
         the Company notifies the Officer in writing  prior to the expiration of
         such period  that it desires  to contest  such claim,  (i) the  Officer
         shall  accept legal  representation with  respect to  such claim  by an
         attorney  reasonably  selected by  the Company, (ii) cooperate with the
         Company in good faith in order to  effectively  contest such claim, and
         (iii) permit the Company to participate in any  proceedings relating to
         such claim; provided, however, the Company shall  bear and pay directly
         all costs  and  expenses  (including  legal  and  accounting  fees  and
         additional  interest  and  penalties) incurred  in connection with such
         contest and  shall indemnify  and  hold  the Officer  harmless,  on  an
         after-tax basis,  for any Excise  Tax or income tax (including interest
         and penalties  with  respect  thereto) imposed  as  a  result  of  such
         representation  and  payment of  costs  and expenses. The Company shall
         control all proceedings  taken in connection  with such  contest to the
         extent  relating to  issues impacting  whether  a  Gross-Up Payment  is
         payable hereunder. The Officer shall be  entitled to settle or contest,
         as the case  may be,  any other issue  raised by the  Internal  Revenue
         Service or  any other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                (D) If  any such  claim referred  to in subsection 5(e)(3)(C) is
         made by the Internal Revenue Service and  the Company  does not request
         the Officer to contest the  claim within  the  30-day period  following

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -6-


<PAGE>


         notice of the claim, the Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of
         any  Gross-Up  Payment  owed to  the  Officer,  but not previously paid
         pursuant to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately  upon the  expiration of
         such 30-day period.  If any such claim is made by the Internal  Revenue
         Service and the Company requests the Officer to contest such claim, the
         Company shall  pay to  the Officer  the amount  of any Gross-Up Payment
         owed to the  Officer, but  not previously paid  under the provisions of
         subsection 5(e)(3)(B), within five days of a Final Determination of the
         liability  of the  Officer for  such Excise  Tax.  For purposes of this
         Agreement,  a  "Final  Determination"  shall be  deemed to  occur  with
         respect to a claim when (i)  there is a decision,  judgment,  decree or
         other order by any  court of  competent  jurisdiction,  which decision,
         judgment, decree or other order has become  final, i.e.,  all allowable
         appeals have been exhausted by either  party to the action,  (ii) there
         is a closing agreement  made under Section 7121  of the Code,  or (iii)
         the time for  instituting a claim for refund has expired, or if a claim
         was filed,  the time  for instituting  suit with  respect  thereto  has
         expired.

            (4) Letter of Credit.  Following a Change in Control, Parent (within
         10 days following  receipt  of Officer's  written request therefor), at
         its sole cost and expense, shall  post an irrevocable  letter of credit
         with a  banking  institution  reasonably  acceptable  to Officer  in an
         amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash  payments that
         would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection if the  provisions of paragraph  (1) of this subsection
         were  to  become  applicable.   Such  letter  of  credit  shall contain
         provisions  making  the  funds  available  thereunder  to   Officer  by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws)  drawn  at sight  by  presentation  by  Officer  to  the
         applicable banking  institution of a  written  statement to  the effect
         that  the  Company is  in default  on a  payment to  be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of  this Agreement  (setting forth  the amount of
         such payment in  default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following  the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

            (5) Retirement  Benefits  Funded.  Upon  a  Change  in  Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement  benefit obligations  to Officer  under
         any then  existing  retirement plan  shall be  fully funded  to a Rabbi
         Trust  for the  benefit of  such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

        (f) Certain  Definitions.  As used  in the Section and elsewhere in this
Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings indicated:

            (1) "Across-the-Board  Salary  Reduction"  shall mean a reduction in
         the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a  rate consistent with, a
         reduction in the base  salaries paid  to substantially  all officers of
         Company.

            (2) "Change in  Control"  shall mean the  occurrence, following  the
         Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:  (i) an event
         that would constitute  a Change in  control as  that term is defined in
         the Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor plan thereto,
         or  (ii)  consummation  of   a  Business   Combination  not   otherwise
         constituting a  Change in  Control  but,  pursuant  to which the Person
         serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the  execution of the
         initial agreement is removed from,  or replaced in,  such capacity with
         respect to the corporation resulting from such Business Combination.

            (3) "Disability"  shall mean Officer's physical or mental impairment
         or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the opinion of the Board,
         either (A)  Officer is unable to continue to perform his/her duties and
         responsibilities  hereunder or  (B) Officer's condition entitles him to
         disability benefits under any  Benefit Plan providing  for the  payment
         thereof.

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -7-


<PAGE>



            (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction"  shall mean  (A) a reduction in the
         Base  Salary  that  is  not  an  Across-the-Board Salary  Reduction (as
         defined in  paragraph (1)  of this  subsection) and that, when combined
         with the net effect  of all prior  increases and reductions in the Base
         Salary (other  than prior  reductions that were Across-the-Board Salary
         Reductions),  results  in the  Base Salary  being less  than 80% of the
         highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been subject  pursuant to
         this Agreement  (as reflected  in the  records of  the Human  Resources
         Department) or  (B) a  reduction  in the Base Salary (whether or nor an
         Across-the-Board Salary Reduction) that,  when  combined  with  the net
         effect  of  all  prior  increases  and  reductions  in the Base  Salary
         (whether or  not  Across-the-Board  Salary  Reductions), results in the
         Base Salary being less  than 65% of  the highest  Base Salary  to which
         Officer has ever been  subject pursuant to this Agreement (as reflected
         in the records of the Human Resources Department).

            (5) "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning  given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-term Incentive Plan.

            (6) "Termination for  Cause" shall  mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of  a  dismissal by  the  Company  following (A)  Officer's
         continued  failure   to  substantially   perform  his/her   duties  and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from  Officer's
         physical or mental impairment  or incapacity)  after written demand for
         substantial  performance  is  delivered  by  the  Company  specifically
         identifying the manner  in which  the Company  believes Officer has not
         substantially  performed  his/her  duties  and  responsibilities,   (B)
         Officer's engaging in fraud or  other misconduct that  is injurious  to
         the  Company,  monetarily  or  otherwise,  (C)  Officer's  engaging  in
         insubordination, (D) Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with,
         any written policy, guideline, rule or regulation of the Company  which
         specifically  provides  that  Officer  may  be  dismissed  (or  his/her
         employment  terminated)  as a  consequence of  any  such  violation  or
         failure to comply, (E) Officer's conviction  of (or  plea of  guilty or
         nolo contendere to a charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor
         involving  moral turpitude  or financial  misconduct, or (F) a material
         violation by  Officer of  the provisions of  Section 6. For purposes of
         clause (B) above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be
         considered "misconduct"  if done,  or omitted,  by Officer  not in good
         faith and  without  reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act,
         was in the best interest of the Company.

            (7) "Termination  for  Good  Reason"  shall  mean  a  Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary  action  by Officer  within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer  position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an  Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4)  of  this subsection),  or (C)  the failure  by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in  Section 7(h)  on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(h).

6.    Nonpublic Information.

     (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with his/her employment
with the  Company,  he has  received,  and will  continue  to  receive,  various
information regarding the Company and its business,  operations and affairs. All
such information, to the extent not publicly available other than as a result of
a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is referred to herein as
the "Nonpublic Information."

     (b) Officer  hereby  agrees  that,  from  and  after  the  date  hereof and
continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment,  he will
keep all  Nonpublic  Information  confidential  and will not,  without the prior
written  consent  of the  Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  disclose  any
Nonpublic  Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his/her services to the Company
hereunder;  provided,  however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent  Officer from (1)  disclosing  any  Nonpublic  Information  to any other
employee of the Company or to any  representative  or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably  necessary or  appropriate  (in Officer's  judgment) in
connection   with  the   performance   by   Officer   of   his/her   duties  and

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -8-


<PAGE>



responsibilities  hereunder  or (2)  disclosing  any  Nonpublic  Information  as
required by applicable  law,  rule,  regulation or legal process (but only after
compliance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

     (c) If Officer is  requested pursuant  to, or required by,  applicable law,
rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic Information, Officer
will notify Parent  promptly so that the Company may seek a protective  order or
other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole discretion,  waive compliance
with the terms of this Section,  and Officer will fully cooperate in any attempt
by the Company to obtain any such protective  order or other remedy.  If no such
protective order or other remedy is obtained,  or the Company waives  compliance
with the terms of this  Section,  Officer  will  furnish or  disclose  only that
portion of the Nonpublic  Information  as is legally  required and will exercise
all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential  treatment
will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is so disclosed.

7.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

     (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any
payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise,
and the  amount  of any  payment  provided  for in this  Agreement  shall not be
reduced by any  compensation  earned by Officer as the result of  employment  by
another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or otherwise.

     (b) Interest.  Until paid,  all past due amounts required to be paid by the
Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement  shall bear interest at
the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent  (12%),  or (2) the
prime rate  announced  from time to time by the  Company's  primary bank lender,
plus three percent (3%), both subject to the maximum rate allowed by law.

     (c) Equitable Relief Available.  Officer acknowledges  that remedies at law
may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or threatened breach
of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly, without prejudice to any
other rights or remedies otherwise available to the Company, Officer agrees that
the Company shall have the right to equitable and  injunctive  relief to prevent
any breach of the  provisions  of Section 6, as well as to such damages or other
relief as may be  available  to the Company by reason of any such breach as does
occur.

     (d) At-Will Employment.  Officer acknowledges  that his/her employment with
the Company is strictly "at-will",  and that nothing contained in this Agreement
shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of the Company, or
interfere  in any way  with the  rights  of the  Company  to  terminate  his/her
employment at any time for any reason.  Officer further  acknowledges  that this
Agreement is not an "employment  agreement" or "employment contract" (written or
otherwise),  as either term is used or defined in, or  contemplated by or under,
(i) the Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or agreement to
which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common or case law.

     (e) Breach Not a Defense.  The representations and covenants on the part of
Officer  contained  in  Section  6  shall  be  construed  as  ancillary  to  and
independent of any other provision of this  Agreement,  and the existence of any
claim or cause  of  action  of  Officer  against  the  Company  or any  officer,
director,  stockholder or representative of the Company,  whether  predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise,  shall not constitute a defense to the  enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

     (f) Notices.  Any notice or other  communication called for by the terms of
this  Agreement  shall be in  writing  and  either  delivered  personally  or by
registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt  requested) and
shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses (or at such other
address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

          (1)  If to Parent or the Company, 5205 North O'Connor Boulevard, Suite
      900, Irving, Texas 75039, Attention:  General Counsel.

          (2)  If to Officer,  the address  of Officer set forth below Officer's
      signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -9-


<PAGE>



     (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent.  Parent shall  require any successor
(whether  direct or  indirect)  to all or  substantially  all of the business or
assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger, consolidation, sale
of  assets  or  otherwise),  by  a  written  agreement  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory  to  Officer,   to  expressly  assume  and  agree  to  perform  the
obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company  would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

     (h)  Assignment.

          (1) Except  pursuant to  an assumption  by a  successor  described  in
      subsection (h) of this Section, the rights and obligations of  the Company
      pursuant to this Agreement  may not  be assigned,  in whole or in part, by
      the Company  to any  other person  or entity  without  the express written
      consent of Officer.

          (2) The rights and obligations of  Officer  pursuant to this Agreement
      may not be assigned,  in whole or in part,  by Officer to any other person
      or entity without the express written consent of the Board.

     (i) Successors.  This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the
benefit of, the  Company,  Officer and their  respective  successors,  permitted
assigns, personal and legal representatives,  executors, administrators,  heirs,
distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

     (j) Amendment and Waivers.  Except as hereinafter provided, no provision of
this Agreement may be amended or otherwise  modified,  and no right of any party
to this Agreement may be waived,  unless such amendment,  modification or waiver
is agreed to in a written  instrument  signed by Officer  and  Parent.  Unless a
Change of Control  shall  have  occurred  or be pending or under  consideration,
Parent  may  amend,  modify,  or waive  any  provision  of, or  terminate,  this
Agreement upon sixty (60) days notice  without the consent of Officer;  provided
that any such amendment,  modification,  waiver or termination  shall be made to
all  severance  agreements of Parent  covering all officers of Parent  similarly
situated to Officer.  No waiver by either party hereto of, or  compliance  with,
any condition or provision of this  Agreement to be performed by the other party
hereto  shall  be  deemed  a waiver  of  similar  or  dissimilar  provisions  or
conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.

     (k) Complete Agreement.  This Agreement  replaces and  supersedes all prior
agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof,
and the provisions of this Agreement  constitute the complete  understanding and
agreement  among the parties with respect to the subject matter  hereof,  and no
agreements  or  representations,  oral or  otherwise,  express or implied,  with
respect to the subject  matter  hereof have been made by either  party which are
not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

     (l) Governing Law.  THIS AGREEMENT  IS BEING  MADE AND  EXECUTED IN, AND IS
INTENDED  TO BE  PERFORMED  IN,  THE  STATE OF  TEXAS  AND  SHALL  BE  GOVERNED,
CONSTRUED,  INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE  LAWS OF
THE STATE OF TEXAS.

     (m) Attorney Fees.  All legal  fees and other  costs incurred by Officer in
connection  with  the  resolution  of any  dispute  or  controversy  under or in
connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer, if
such dispute or controversy  is resolved in favor of Officer.  The Company shall
be  responsible  for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs  incurred by
the Company in  connection  with the  resolution  of any dispute or  controversy
under or in connection with this  Agreement,  regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

     (n) Counterparts.  This Agreement may  be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original,  but all of which together will
constitute one and the same agreement.

                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -10-


<PAGE>



     (o) Construction.  The captions of the Sections, subsections and paragraphs
of this  Agreement  have been inserted as a matter of  convenience  of reference
only and shall not affect the  meaning  or  construction  of any of the terms or
provisions of this Agreement.  Unless  otherwise  specified,  references in this
Agreement  to  a  "Section,"   "subsection,"   "paragraph,"   "subparagraph"  or
"Schedule"  shall be considered to be  references  to the  appropriate  Section,
subsection,   paragraph,   subparagraph  or  Schedule,   respectively,  of  this
Agreement.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  all  words  used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular  words shall  include the plural and all plural words shall include
the  singular.  As used in this  Agreement,  the  term  "including"  shall  mean
"including, but not limited to."

     (p) Validity and Severability.  If any term  or provision of this Agreement
is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present or future laws
effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or provision shall be
fully  severable,  (2) this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such
term or  provision  had never  comprised  a part of this  Agreement  and (3) the
remaining  terms and provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and
effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,  invalid or unenforceable  term
or provision or by its severance from this  Agreement.  Furthermore,  in lieu of
such illegal,  invalid or unenforceable term or provision,  there shall be added
automatically  as a part of this  Agreement,  a term or  provision as similar to
such illegal,  invalid or unenforceable term or provision as may be possible and
be legal, valid and enforceable.

     (q) Execution by Company.  The execution of this Agreement by Company shall
constitute  an  acceptance  of, and an  agreement  to be bound by, the terms and
provisions  of this  Agreement  by Company  and each of its direct and  indirect
wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Company hereby agrees to cause each of its direct
and indirect wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  now and in the future, to fully comply
with all  obligations  applicable  to the Company  pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)


                                                                         /s/ ARA
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -11-



<PAGE>





     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                             --------------------------------------------
                        Name:  Scott D. Sheffield
                        Title: Chief Executive Officer and Chairman




                        OFFICER:



                          /s/ A. R. Alameddine
                        -------------------------------------------------
                        A. R. Alameddine

                        Address:


                        -------------------------------------------------

                        -------------------------------------------------



              [Signature Page - Severance Agreement - Page 1 of 1]


<PAGE>



                                   Schedule A

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT


NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment offered to me under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.




Date signed:
             ------------------            --------------------------------
                                           Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             ------------------            --------------------------------
                                           Signature of Officer

<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1021.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.21
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.21

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This  Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into  effective
December 1, 1999,  between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  and Thomas C. Halbouty (the "Officer").  As used in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1.  Position and Duties.  Officer  shall  initially  serve  Company as Vice
President  - Chief  Information  Officer,  and,  in so  doing,  shall  report to
Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"),  Company's  Chief Executive  Officer
(the "Chief Executive  Officer") or such officers of Company as is prescribed by
Company's  bylaws,  by  resolutions  of the Board or by  direction  of the Chief
Executive  Officer.  Officer  shall  have  supervision  and  control  over,  and
responsibility  for, such  management and  operational  functions of the Company
currently  assigned  to such  position,  and shall have such other or  different
functions,  powers,  duties  and  responsibilities  (including  holding  officer
positions with one or more subsidiaries of Parent),  as may from time to time be
prescribed  by the Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any other Company
officer to whom Officer  reports,  so long as such functions,  powers and duties
are reasonable and customary for a Vice  President - Chief  Information  Officer
serving an enterprise  comparable to Company.  Employee's  failure to accept and
perform such other or different  functions,  powers or duties shall be deemed to
be a Termination  of Employment by voluntary  action of Employee,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described in Section 1, he/she shall devote his/her full time, skill
and  attention  and his/her best efforts  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and  affairs  of the  Company  to the extent  necessary  to  discharge
faithfully  and  efficiently  his/her  duties and  responsibilities,  except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary. As compensation for Officer's services, the
Company shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per
annum (the "Base Salary"). The Base Salary shall be payable in substantially
equal semi-monthly installments. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the
"Compensation Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -1-


<PAGE>


such increases, or effect such reductions, in the Base Salary as the
Compensation Committee considers appropriate in accordance with such
compensation guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The
Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's employment
with the Company, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall be
identified on Schedule A attached hereto, which shall be amended periodically to
reflect any increases or reductions effected by the Compensation Committee.

        (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in addition
to the Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the Compensation
Committee may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies
as it may establish from time to time.

        (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or other arrangement
made available now or in the future by the Company to the officers of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms, conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

        (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the
number of paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from
time to time for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given
by the Company to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall  initially  be required to perform  his/her
duties and  responsibilities  hereunder at Company's  offices located in Irving,
Texas.  If  the  Company   requires   Officer  to  perform  his/her  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of Irving,  Texas (a "New  Location") and, within 30 days after receiving
notice thereof,  Officer accepts such relocation rather than terminating his/her
employment  with the Company  pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to
Officer,  or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed
evidence thereof), such sums as are provided for under the Relocation Policy for
Exempt  Employees as  established by Company.  Officer's  failure to accept such
relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,  shall be deemed to be
a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5. Termination of Employment.

        (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his/her officer position with Company) shall be terminated upon the
death, Disability (as defined in subsection (f)(3) of this Section) or Normal
Retirement (as defined in subsection (f)(5) of this Section) of Officer. In
addition, Officer's employment with the Company (including his/her officer
position with Company) may be terminated at any time and for any reason as a
result of a dismissal by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by
Officer. Any such termination of employment is referred to herein as a
"Termination of Employment."

        (b) Notice of Termination.

            (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the opinion of the
         Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

            (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to Company by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that Officer is
         retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than 30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Company.

            (3) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a dismissal
         by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) shall be
         communicated by the Company to Officer by a written notice thereof.
         Such notice shall state whether or not (in the Company's opinion) the
         Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for Cause (as

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -2-


<PAGE>


         defined in subsection (f)(6) of this Section) and, if so, shall set
         forth in reasonable detail facts and circumstances constituting a basis
         for such Termination for Cause.

            (4) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Company by written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in Officer's
         opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in subsection (f)(7) of this Section) and, if
         so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason. Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such Termination of Employment, which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following the date such
         notice is received by Company.

        (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this
Agreement, the date of a Termination of Employment shall be (1) if the
Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, the date of such
death, (2) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's
Disability, the date on which the notice described in subsection (b)(1) of this
Section is received by Officer, (3) if the Termination of Employment is the
result of Officer's Normal Retirement, the date specified in the notice
described in subsection (b)(2) of this Section, (4) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of
Officer's Disability), the date on which the notice described in subsection
(b)(3) of this Section is received by the Officer, or such later date as may be
specified by the Company in such notice, and (5) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result
of Officer's Normal Retirement), the date specified in the notice described in
subsection (b)(4) of this Section, or such earlier date as the Company may
specify, provided that if such date specified by Company is less than 30 days
following the date Company received notice from Employee, then Company agrees to
pay officer an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of Officer's Base Salary,
which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
Employment.

        (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The
provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of or at any
time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection (f)(2) of this
Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of this Section shall apply
only to any Termination of Employment prior to a Change in Control.

            (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his/her estate or personal representative):

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which amount
                  shall be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of
                  such Termination of Employment.

            (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -3-


<PAGE>



         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (C) A lump sum amount equal to one full
                  year's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which
                  amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and Officer's immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

            (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and constitutes
         a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement) and does
         not constitute a Termination for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment; and

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

            (4) Payment Contingent on Release. If Officer's
         Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control (and only in
         that event), and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided
         in subsection (d)(2) of this Section, then such payment shall be
         subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General
         Release Agreement in favor of the Company in substantially the form and
         substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule B.

        (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any Termination of Employment occurring at the time
of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.

            (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result of a

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -4-


<PAGE>


         voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.99 times
                  the sum of (i) Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on
                  the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified on
                  Schedule A), plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's
                  targeted bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for
                  Officer, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment;

                       (C) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any employee Benefit Plan
                  or other arrangement made available now or in the future by
                  the Company to its employees, through and including the date
                  of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his/her immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (e)(1)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

            (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason or for
         Failure to Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         subsection (e) to the contrary, if the Termination of Employment (i) is
         the result of a voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a
         Termination for Good Reason, and occurs at least six months, but not
         more than one year, following a Change in Control, or (ii) whether
         voluntary or involuntary, occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his/her duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

            (3) Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                       (A) If any portion of such compensation
                  constitutes a parachute payment (a "Payment") and is subject
                  to the Excise Tax (hereinafter defined), then Company shall,
                  in addition to providing such compensation, pay the Gross-Up
                  Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer in the manner
                  described below. For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "Excise
                  Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of
                  the Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer
                  with respect to such Excise Tax, and (ii) "Gross-Up Payment"
                  shall mean, with respect to any compensation provided to the
                  Officer by Company (including without limitation the payments
                  provided for under this Agreement and any payments to the
                  Officer under any employee benefit plan, including without
                  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan, or other
                  arrangement) that is subject to the Excise Tax, an amount

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -5-


<PAGE>



                  that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment
                  for all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest
                  or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes) to which the
                  Gross-Up Payment is subject (including the Excise Tax to which
                  the Gross-Up Payment is subject), is equal to the amount of
                  the Excise Tax to which such compensation is subject. For
                  purposes of determining the amount of any Gross-Up Payment,
                  Officer shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the
                  highest marginal rate of taxation and state and local taxes,
                  if applicable, at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the
                  state and locality of residence of the Officer on the Date of
                  Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
                  taxes that could be obtained from deduction of such state and
                  local taxes, if any.

                       (B) Subject to the provisions of subsection
                  5(e)(3)(C), all determinations required to be made under this
                  subsection 5(e)(3), including whether and when a Gross-Up
                  Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and
                  the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
                  determination, shall be made by the accounting firm which
                  performed the audit of the Company for the year preceding the
                  year in which the Change in Control occurred (the "Accounting
                  Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations
                  both to the Company and the Officer within 15 business days of
                  the receipt of notice from the Officer that there has been a
                  Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company.
                  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant
                  or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the
                  Change in Control, the Officer shall appoint another
                  nationally recognized accounting firm to make the
                  determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall
                  then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All
                  fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely
                  by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant
                  to this subsection 5(e)(3), shall be paid by the Company to
                  the Officer within five days of the receipt of the Accounting
                  Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that
                  no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer, it shall furnish the
                  Officer with a written opinion that failure to report the
                  Excise Tax on the Officer's applicable federal income or
                  excise tax return would not result in the imposition of a
                  negligence or similar penalty. Any determination by the
                  Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the
                  Officer.

                       (C) The Officer shall notify the Company in
                  writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if
                  successful, would require the payment by the Company of the
                  Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given no later
                  than ten business days after the Officer is informed in
                  writing of such claim. The Officer shall not pay such claim
                  prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the
                  date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such
                  shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes
                  with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies
                  the Officer in writing prior to the expiration of such period
                  that it desires to contest such claim, (i) the Officer shall
                  accept legal representation with respect to such claim by an
                  attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (ii) cooperate
                  with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest
                  such claim, and (iii) permit the Company to participate in any
                  proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, the
                  Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
                  (including legal and accounting fees and additional interest
                  and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and
                  shall indemnify and hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax
                  basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest
                  and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of
                  such representation and payment of costs and expenses. The
                  Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with
                  such contest to the extent relating to issues impacting
                  whether a Gross-Up Payment is payable hereunder. The Officer
                  shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be,
                  any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any
                  other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                       (D) If any such claim referred to in
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(C) is made by the Internal Revenue Service
                  and the Company does not request the Officer to contest the
                  claim within the 30-day period following notice of the claim,
                  the Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of any
                  Gross-Up Payment owed to the Officer, but not previously paid
                  pursuant to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately upon the
                  expiration of such 30-day period. If any such claim is made by
                  the Internal Revenue Service and the Company requests the
                  Officer to contest such claim, the Company shall pay to the
                  Officer the amount of any Gross-Up Payment owed to the

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -6-


<PAGE>


                  Officer, but not previously paid under the provisions of
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(B), within five days of a Final
                  Determination of the liability of the Officer for such Excise
                  Tax. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Final Determination"
                  shall be deemed to occur with respect to a claim when (i)
                  there is a decision, judgment, decree or other order by any
                  court of competent jurisdiction, which decision, judgment,
                  decree or other order has become final, i.e., all allowable
                  appeals have been exhausted by either party to the action,
                  (ii) there is a closing agreement made under Section 7121 of
                  the Code, or (iii) the time for instituting a claim for refund
                  has expired, or if a claim was filed, the time for instituting
                  suit with respect thereto has expired.

            (4) Letter of Credit. Following a Change in Control,
         Parent (within 10 days following receipt of Officer's written request
         therefor), at its sole cost and expense, shall post an irrevocable
         letter of credit with a banking institution reasonably acceptable to
         Officer in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash
         payments that would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of
         paragraph (1) of this subsection if the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection were to become applicable. Such letter of credit shall
         contain provisions making the funds available thereunder to Officer by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws) drawn at sight by presentation by Officer to the
         applicable banking institution of a written statement to the effect
         that the Company is in default on a payment to be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (setting forth the amount of
         such payment in default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

            (5) Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement benefit obligations to Officer under
         any then existing retirement plan shall be fully funded to a Rabbi
         Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

        (f) Certain Definitions. As used in the Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

            (1) "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate
         consistent with, a reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially
         all officers of Company.

            (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence,
         following the Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:
         (i) an event that would constitute a Change in control as that term is
         defined in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor
         plan thereto, or (ii) Consummation of a Business Combination not
         otherwise constituting a Change in Control but, pursuant to which the
         Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the execution
         of the initial agreement is removed from, or replaced in, such capacity
         with respect to the corporation resulting from such Business
         Combination.

            (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or
         mental impairment or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the
         opinion of the Board, either (A) Officer is unable to continue to
         perform his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's
         condition entitles him to disability benefits under any Benefit Plan
         providing for the payment thereof.

            (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -7-


<PAGE>


         in the Base Salary (other than prior reductions that were
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 80% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A) or (B)
         a reduction in the Base Salary (whether or nor an Across-the-Board
         Salary Reduction) that, when combined with the net effect of all prior
         increases and reductions in the Base Salary (whether or not
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 65% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A).

            (5) "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning  given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-term Incentive Plan.

            (6) "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of a dismissal by the Company following (A) Officer's
         continued failure to substantially perform his/her duties and
         responsibilities other than any such failure resulting from Officer's
         physical or mental impairment or incapacity) after written demand for
         substantial performance is delivered by the Company specifically
         identifying the manner in which the Company believes Officer has not
         substantially performed his/her duties and responsibilities, (B)
         Officer's engaging in fraud or other misconduct that is injurious to
         the Company, monetarily or otherwise, (C) Officer's engaging in
         insubordination, (D) Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with,
         any written policy, guideline, rule or regulation of the Company which
         specifically provides that Officer may be dismissed (or his/her
         employment terminated) as a consequence of any such violation or
         failure to comply, (E) Officer's conviction of (or plea of guilty or
         nolo contendere to a charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor
         involving moral turpitude or financial misconduct, or (F) a material
         violation by Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For purposes of
         clause (B) above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be
         considered "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by Officer not in good
         faith and without reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act,
         was in the best interest of the Company.

            (7) "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the failure by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in Section 7(h) on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(h).

     6.  Nonpublic Information.

        (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with
his/her employment with the Company, he has received, and will continue to
receive, various information regarding the Company and its business, operations
and affairs. All such information, to the extent not publicly available other
than as a result of a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

        (b) Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof
and continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment, he
will keep all Nonpublic Information confidential and will not, without the prior
written consent of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, disclose any
Nonpublic Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his/her services to the Company
hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent Officer from (1) disclosing any Nonpublic Information to any other
employee of the Company or to any representative or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate (in Officer's judgment) in
connection with the performance by Officer of his/her duties and
responsibilities hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic Information as
required by applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process (but only after
compliance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).


                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -8-


<PAGE>


        (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by,
applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic
Information, Officer will notify Parent promptly so that the Company may seek a
protective order or other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole
discretion, waive compliance with the terms of this Section, and Officer will
fully cooperate in any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective
order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained,
or the Company waives compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will
furnish or disclose only that portion of the Nonpublic Information as is legally
required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is
so disclosed.

     7.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

        (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

        (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent (12%),
or (2) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Company's primary bank
lender, plus three percent (3%).

        (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,
without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

        (d) At-Will Employment. Officer acknowledges that his/her
employment with the Company is strictly "at-will", and that nothing contained in
this Agreement shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of
the Company, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Company to terminate
his/her employment at any time for any reason. Officer further acknowledges that
this Agreement is not an "employment agreement" or "employment contract"
(written or otherwise), as either term is used or defined in, or contemplated by
or under, (i) the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or
agreement to which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common
or case law.

        (e) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

        (f) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

            (1) If to Parent or the Company,  1400 Williams  Square West,  5205
         North  O'Connor  Boulevard,  Irving,  Texas 75039,  Attention: General
         Counsel.

            (2) If to Officer, the address of Officer set forth below Officer's
         signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

        (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -9-


<PAGE>



business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), by a written agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to Officer, to expressly assume and agree to perform the
obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

        (h)  Assignment.

            (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
         described in subsection (h) of this Section, the rights and obligations
         of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole
         or in part, by the Company to any other person or entity without the
         express written consent of Officer.

            (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant to
         this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer to
         any other person or entity without the express written consent of the
         Board.

        (i) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall
inure to the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,
permitted assigns, personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

        (j) Amendment and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no
provision of this Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, and no right
of any party to this Agreement may be waived, unless such amendment,
modification or waiver is agreed to in a written instrument signed by Officer
and Parent (and any dated and signed Schedule A, as described in subsection (p)
of this Section, shall constitute such an instrument). Unless a Change of
Control shall have occurred or be pending or under consideration, Parent may
amend, modify, or waive any provision of, or terminate, this Agreement upon
sixty (60) days notice without the consent of Officer; provided that any such
amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made to all severance
agreements of Parent covering all officers of Parent similarly situated to
Officer. No waiver by either party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition
or provision of this Agreement to be performed by the other party hereto shall
be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same
or at any prior or subsequent time.

        (k) Complete Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes
all prior agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and the provisions of this Agreement constitute the complete
understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and no agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or
implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either
party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

        (l) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED
IN, AND IS INTENDED TO BE PERFORMED IN, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED, CONSTRUED, INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

        (m) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under or
in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer,
if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The Company
shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs incurred
by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy
under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

        (n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

        (o) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections
and paragraphs of this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -10-


<PAGE>


of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this Agreement to a "Section," "subsection," "paragraph," "subparagraph" or
"Schedule" shall be considered to be references to the appropriate Section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or Schedule, respectively, of this
Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, all words used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular words shall include the plural and all plural words shall include
the singular. As used in this Agreement, the term "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."

        (p) Schedule A. Schedule A may be replaced at any time and
from time to time to reflect a change in the Base Salary; provided, however,
that no Schedule A attached hereto shall be effective unless it contains a date
and bears a signature of approval on behalf of Officer and a signature of
approval on behalf of Company; and provided further, however, that if at any
time two or more dated and signed copies of Schedule A conflict with each other,
the later dated of such copies shall control.

        (q) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present
or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or
provision shall be fully severable, (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced as if such term or provision had never comprised a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,
invalid or unenforceable term or provision or by its severance from this
Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

        (r) Execution by Company. The execution of this Agreement by
Company shall constitute an acceptance of, and an agreement to be bound by, the
terms and provisions of this Agreement by Company and each of its direct and
indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Company hereby agrees to cause each of
its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, now and in the future, to
fully comply with all obligations applicable to the Company pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)

                                                                         /s/ TCH
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

                                      -11-


<PAGE>





     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Mark. L. Withrow
                            -------------------------------
                        Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                        Title: Executive Vice President




                        OFFICER:



                           /s/ Thomas C. Halbouty
                        -----------------------------------
                        Thomas C. Halbouty

                        Address:


                        -----------------------------------

                        -----------------------------------




<PAGE>





                                   Schedule A

                     Attached to Severance Agreement between
                      Pioneer Natural Resources Company and
                               Thomas C. Halbouty





BASE Salary:

         Effective Date                                    Amount

         January 1, 2005                                   $231,000.00





















Dated and Approved as of _______________:

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY                OFFICER:


By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield                      /s/ Thomas C. Halbouty
    ---------------------------------------      ------------------------------
Name:  Scott D. Sheffield                          Thomas C. Halbouty
Title: Chief Executive Officer and Chairman







<PAGE>




                                   Schedule B

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT


NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment offered to me under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.




Date signed:
             ----------------------        -----------------------------------
                                             Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             ----------------------        -----------------------------------
                                             Signature of Officer

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1022.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.22
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.22

                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into,  effective
August  8,  1997,   between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources   Company,  a  Delaware
corporation  ("Parent"),  and Larry N. Paulsen (the "Officer").  As used in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A. Officer is currently serving as an officer of Parent. Parent and Officer
desire  to  enter  into an  agreement  governing  certain  matters  relating  to
Officer's employment with the Company,  including compensation  arrangements and
restrictions on Officer's use of Company information.

     B.  Parent  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee  of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Parent  is  willing  to  enter  into  a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     C.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Parent to enter into a  compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1. Position and Duties. Officer shall serve Parent as Vice President,  and,
in so doing, shall report to Parent's Board of Directors (the "Board"), Parent's
Chief  Executive  Officer (the "Chief  Executive  Officer") or such  officers of
Parent as is prescribed by Parent's  bylaws,  by  resolutions of the Board or by
direction of the Chief  Executive  Officer.  Officer shall have  supervision and
control over, and responsibility for, such management and operational  functions
of the Company currently assigned to such position, and shall have such other or
different  powers and duties  (including  holding officer  positions with one or
more  subsidiaries  of Parent),  as may from time to time be  prescribed  by the
Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  so long as such  functions,  powers and
duties are reasonable  and customary for a Vice President  serving an enterprise
comparable to Parent.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described  in  Section 1, he shall  devote his full time,  skill and
attention and his best efforts during normal  business hours to the business and
affairs of the  Company to the extent  necessary  to  discharge  faithfully  and
efficiently his duties and  responsibilities  described in Section 1, except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.



<PAGE>


     3.  Compensation.

         (a)  Base Salary. As compensation for Officer's services, the Company
shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per annum (the
"Base  Salary").  The  Base  Salary  shall be  payable  in  substantially  equal
semi-monthly  installments.   The  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  (the
"Compensation  Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant
such  increases,  or  effect  such  reductions,   in  the  Base  Salary  as  the
Compensation   Committee   considers   appropriate   in  accordance   with  such
compensation  guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The
Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's  employment
with the Company,  commencing on the effective date of this Agreement,  shall be
identified on Schedule A attached hereto, which shall be amended periodically to
reflect any increases or reductions effected by the Compensation Committee.

         (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in addition to the
Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the  Compensation  Committee
may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies as it may
establish from time to time.

         (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate in, or
receive  benefits under,  any employee  benefit plan or other  arrangement  made
available  now or in the  future by the  Company  to the  officers  of Parent (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms,  conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

         (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the number of
paid vacation days in each calendar year  determined by Parent from time to time
for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given by the Company
to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall be  required  to  perform  his  duties  and
responsibilities hereunder at Parent's offices located in Midland, Texas. If the
Company  requires  Officer to perform  his  duties and  responsibilities  at any
location that is more than 50 miles from the nearest border of Midland, Texas (a
"New  Location") and,  within 30 days after  receiving  notice thereof,  Officer
accepts such relocation  rather than terminating his employment with the Company
pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to Officer,  or shall  reimburse
Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed evidence thereof), such sums
as are  provided  for  under the  Relocation  Policy  for  Exempt  Employees  as
established by Parent.

     5.  Termination of Employment.

         (a)  Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his officer position with Parent) shall be terminated upon the death,
Disability  (as  defined  in  subsection  (f)(3)  of  this  Section)  or  Normal
Retirement  (as defined in  subsection  (f)(6) of this  Section) of Officer.  In
addition,  Officer's employment with the Company (including his officer position
with Parent) may be  terminated  at any time and for any reason as a result of a
dismissal or other action by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by
Officer.  Any  such  termination  of  employment  is  referred  to  herein  as a
"Termination of Employment."

         (b) Notice of Termination.

             (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the opinion of the
         Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

             (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to Parent by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that Officer is
         retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than 30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Parent.



<PAGE>


             (3) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a dismissal
         or other action by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's
         Disability) shall be communicated by the Company to Officer by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in the
         Company's opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a
         Termination for Cause (as defined in subsection (f)(7) of this Section)
         and, if so, shall set forth in reasonable detail facts and
         circumstances constituting a basis for such Termination for Cause.

             (4) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Parent by written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in Officer's
         opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in subsection (0(8) of this Section) and, if
         so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason. Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such Termination of Employment, which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following the date such
         notice is received by Parent.

         (c)  Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this Agreement,
the date of a  Termination  of  Employment  shall be (1) if the  Termination  of
Employment is the result of Officer's  death, the date of such death, (2) if the
Termination  of  Employment is the result of Officer's  Disability,  the date on
which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(1) of this Section is received by
Officer,  (3) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's Normal
Retirement,  the date specified in the notice described in subsection  (b)(2) of
this Section,  (4) if the Termination of Employment is the result of a dismissal
or other action by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's  Disability),
the date on which the notice  described in subsection  (b)(3) of this Section is
received by the Officer,  and (5) if the Termination of Employment is the result
of a  voluntary  action by Officer  (but is not the result of  Officer's  Normal
Retirement),  the date specified in the notice described in subsection (b)(4) of
this Section.

         (d)  Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The provisions of
subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of
or at any time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection
(f)(2) of this Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of
this Section shall apply only to any Termination of Employment prior to
a Change in Control.

             (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his estate or personal representative):

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A)
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the first normal semi-monthly Base Salary
                  payment date immediately succeeding the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's participation in,
                  or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan; and

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base Salary (at
                  the rate in effect on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which amount shall
                  be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of such
                  Termination of Employment.


<PAGE>


             (2)  Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If the
         Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal or
         other action by the Company (but is not the result of
         Officer's Disability) and does not constitute a Termination
         for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement)
         and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following
         benefits to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A)
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amount arising from Officer's participation in,
                  or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan;

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base Salary (at
                  the rate in effect on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the date of such
                  Termination of Employment, a continuation of all health
                  insurance coverage applicable at the time of such Termination
                  of Employment to Officer and his immediate family under any
                  Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of Employment described
                  in Section 5(d)(2)(i), an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12)
                  of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount shall be paid in
                  cash on the date of such Termination of Employment.

             (3)  Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If the
         Termination  of  Employment  (i) is the result of a dismissal or other
         action by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's  Disability)
         and  constitutes a Terminaation  for Cause or (ii) is the  result of a
         voluntary  action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and does not constitute a Termination  for Good Reason,
         the Company  shall pay the  following  amounts to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A)
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first
                  normal semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately
                  succeeding the date of such Termination of Employment; and

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's participation in,
                  or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan.

             (4) Payment Contingent on Release. If Officer's
         Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control (and only in
         that event), and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided
         in subsection (d)(2) of this Section, then such payment shall be
         subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General
         Release Agreement in favor of the Company in substantially the form and
         substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule B.

         (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any Termination of Employment occurring at the time
of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.


<PAGE>


             (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal or other
         action by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability)
         and does not constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result
         of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the
         Company shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following
         benefits, to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A)
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.99 times the sum of (i)
                  Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A),
                  plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's targeted
                  bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for Officer, which
                  amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment;

                       (C) Any amount arising from Officer's participation in,
                  or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through and including the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the date of such
                  Termination of Employment, a continuation of all health
                  insurance coverage applicable at the time of such Termination
                  of Employment to Officer and his immediate family under any
                  Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of Employment described
                  in Section 5(e)(1)(i), an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12)
                  of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount shall be paid in
                  cash on the date of such Termination of Employment.

             (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer, does not constitute a Termination for Good Reason and either
         (A) occurs at least six months, but not more than one year, following a
         Change in Control or (B) occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

             (3)  Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                       (A) If any portion of such compensation
                  constitutes a parachute payment (a "Payment") and is subject
                  to the Excise Tax (hereinafter defined), then Company shall,
                  in addition to providing such compensation, pay the Gross-Up
                  Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer in the manner
                  described below. For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "Excise
                  Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of
                  the Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer
                  with respect to such Excise Tax, and (ii) "Gross-Up Payment"
                  shall mean, with respect to any compensation provided to the
                  Officer by Company (including without limitation the payments
                  provided for under this Agreement and any payments to the
                  Officer under any employee benefit plan, including without
                  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan, or other
                  arrangement) that is subject to the Excise Tax, an amount
                  that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment
                  for all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest
                  or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes) to which the
                  Gross-Up Payment is subject (including the Excise Tax to which
                  the Gross-Up Payment is subject), is equal to the amount of
                  the Excise Tax to which such compensation is subject. For
                  purposes of determining the amount of any Gross-Up Payment,
                  Officer shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the


<PAGE>


                  highest marginal rate of taxation and state and local taxes,
                  if applicable, at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the
                  state and locality of residence of the Officer on the Date of
                  Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
                  taxes that could be obtained from deduction of such state and
                  local taxes, if any.

                       (B) Subject to the provisions of subsection  5(e)(3)(C),
                  all  determinations  required to be made under this subsection
                  5(e)(3), including  whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is
                  required,  the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the
                  assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination,
                  shall be made by the accounting firm which performed the audit
                  of the Company for the year preceding the year in which the
                  Change in Control  occurred (the  "Accounting  Firm") which
                  shall provide detailed  supporting  calculations  both to the
                  Company and the Officer within 15 business days of the receipt
                  of notice  from the Officer  that there has been a Payment, or
                  such  earlier  time as is  requested  by the Company.  In the
                  event that the Accounting  Firm is serving as accountant or
                  auditor for the  individual,  entity or group effecting the
                  Change in Control,  the Officer shall appoint another
                  nationally  recognized  accounting firm to  make the
                  determinations  required hereunder (which accounting firm
                  shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).
                  All fees and  expenses  of the  Accounting  Firm shall be
                  borne  solely by the  Company.  Any  Gross-Up Payment, as
                  determined pursuant to this subsection 5(e)(3),  shall be paid
                  by the Company to the Officer within five days of the receipt
                  of the Accounting Firm's determination.  If the Accounting
                  Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer,
                  it shall  furnish the Officer with a written  opinion that
                  failure to report the Excise Tax on the Officer's  applicable
                  federal income or excise tax return would not result in the
                  imposition of a negligence or similar penalty.  Any
                  determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the
                  Company and the Officer.

                       (C) The Officer  shall notify the Company in writing of
                  any claim by the Internal  Revenue  Service  that,  if
                  successful,  would require the payment by the  Company of the
                  Gross-Up  Payment.  Such notification  shall be given no later
                  than ten business days after the Officer is informed in
                  writing of such claim.  The Officer shall not pay such claim
                  prior to the  expiration  of the 30-day  period following  the
                  date on which it gives such  notice to the  Company  (or such
                  shorter  period  ending on the date that any  payment of taxes
                  with  respect to such claim is due).  If the  Company notifies
                  the Officer in writing prior to the  expiration of such period
                  that it desires to contest such claim,  (i) the Officer shall
                  accept legal  representation  with respect to such claim by an
                  attorney reasonably selected by the Company,  (ii) cooperate
                  with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest
                  such claim, and (iii) permit the Company to participate in any
                  proceedings relating to such claim; provided,  however, the
                  Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
                  (including  legal and accounting fees and additional  interest
                  and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and
                  shall indemnify and hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax
                  basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax  (including  interest
                  and penalties  with respect  thereto)  imposed as a result of
                  such  representation  and  payment of costs and expenses. The
                  Company  shall  control  all  proceedings  taken in connection
                  with such contest to the extent relating  to issues impacting
                  whether a Gross-Up Payment is payable hereunder. The Officer
                  shall be entitled to settle or contest,  as the case may be,
                  any other issue  raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any
                  other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                       (D) If any such claim  referred to in  subsection
                  5(e)(3)(C)  is made by the Internal Revenue Service and the
                  Company does not request the Officer to contest the claim
                  within the 30-day period  following  notice of the claim, the
                  Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of any Gross-Up
                  Payment owed to the Officer, but not previously paid pursuant
                  to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately upon the  expiration of
                  such 30-day period.  If any such claim is made by the Internal
                  Revenue Service and the Company  requests the Officer to
                  contest such claim,  the Company shall pay to the Officer the
                  amount of any Gross-Up  Payment owed to the Officer,  but not
                  previously  paid under the  provisions of subsection
                  5(e)(3)(B),  within five days of a Final  Determination of the
                  liability of the Officer for such Excise Tax. For purposes of
                  this Agreement,  a "Final  Determination" shall be deemed to
                  occur with respect to a claim when (i) there is a decision,
                  judgment,  decree or other order by any court of competent
                  jurisdiction, which decision, judgment, decree or other order


<PAGE>


                  has become final,  i.e., all allowable  appeals have been
                  exhausted by either party to the  action,  (ii)  there is a
                  closing agreement made under Section 7121 of the Code, or
                  (iii) the time for instituting a claim for refund has expired,
                  or if a claim was filed, the time for instituting suit with
                  respect thereto has expired.

             (4)  Letter of Credit. Following a Change in Control, Parent
         (within 10 days following receipt of Officer's written request
         therefor), at its sole cost and expense, shall post an irrevocable
         letter of credit with a banking institution reasonably acceptable to
         Officer in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash
         payments that would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of
         paragraph (1) of this subsection if the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection were to become applicable. Such letter of credit shall
         contain provisions making the funds available thereunder to Officer by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws) drawn at sight by presentation by Officer to the
         applicable banking institution of a written statement to the effect
         that the Company is in default on a payment to be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (setting forth the amount of
         such payment in default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

             (5)  Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement benefit obligations to Officer under
         any then existing retirement plan shall be fully funded to a Rabbi
         Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

         (f) Certain Definitions. As used in the Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

             (1)  "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a reduction in
         the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate consistent with, a
         reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially all officers of
         Parent.

             (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the
         following events:

                       (A) The  acquisition  by any  individual, entity or group
                  (within the meaning of Section  13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
                  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange
                  Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial  ownership  (within the
                  meaning of Rule 13d-3  promulgated  under the Exchange Act) of
                  20% or more of either (x) the then outstanding  shares of
                  common stock of Parent (the "Outstanding Parent Common Stock")
                  or (y) the combined  voting power of the then  outstanding
                  voting securities of Parent entitled to vote generally in the
                  election of directors (the "Outstanding  Parent Voting
                  Securities");  provided,  however,  that for purposes of this
                  subsection (A), the following  acquisitions  shall not
                  constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition directly
                  from Parent, (ii) any acquisition by Parent, (iii) any
                  acquisition  by any employee benefit plan (or related trust)
                  sponsored or maintained by Parent or any corporation
                  controlled  by Parent or (iv) any  acquisition  by any
                  corporation  pursuant to a transaction  which  complies with
                  clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (C) below; or

                       (B) Members of the Incumbent Board cease for any reason
                  to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or

                       (C) Consummation of a  reorganization,  merger or
                  consolidation or sale or other  disposition of all or
                  substantially  all of the assets of Parent or an acquisition
                  of assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"),
                  in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i)
                  all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who
                  were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding
                  Parent Common Stock and Outstanding Parent Voting Securities
                  immediately prior to such Business Combination  beneficially
                  own, directly or indirectly,  more than 50% of, respectively,


<PAGE>


                  the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined
                  voting power of the then outstanding voting securities
                  entitled to vote generally in the election of directors,  as
                  the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such
                  Business  Combination  (including,  without limitation, a
                  corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Parent
                  or all or substantially all of Parent's assets either directly
                  or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same
                  proportions  as their  ownership,  immediately  prior to such
                  Business Combination of the Outstanding  Parent Common Stock
                  and Outstanding  Parent Voting  Securities,  as the case may
                  be, (ii) no Person  (excluding any employee benefit plan (or
                  related trust) of Parent or the corporation  resulting from
                  such Business  Combination)  beneficially  owns,  directly or
                  indirectly,  20% or more of,  respectively,  the then
                  outstanding  shares of common stock of the  corporation
                  resulting  from such Business  Combination  or the combined
                  voting power of the then outstanding  voting securities of
                  such corporation except to the extent that such ownership
                  results solely from ownership of Parent that existed prior to
                  the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the
                  members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting
                  from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent
                  Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement,
                  or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business
                  Combination; or

                       (D) Approval by the shareholders of Parent of a complete
                  liquidation or dissolution of Parent; or

                       (E) Consummation of a Business Combination not otherwise
                  constituting a Change of Control but, pursuant to which the
                  Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the
                  execution of the initial agreement is removed from, or
                  replaced in, such capacity with respect to the corporation
                  resulting from such Business Combination.

             (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or mental impairment
         or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the opinion of the Board,
         either (A) Officer is unable to continue to perform his duties and
         responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's condition entitles him to
         disability benefits under any Benefit Plan providing for the payment
         thereof.

             (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a reduction in the
         Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary Reduction (as
         defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that, when combined
         with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions in the Base
         Salary (other than prior reductions that were Across-the-Board Salary
         Reductions), results in the Base Salary being less than 80% of the
         highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been subject pursuant to
         this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A) or (B) a reduction in the
         Base Salary (whether or nor an Across-the-Board Salary Reduction) that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions
         in the Base Salary (whether or not Across-the-Board Salary Reductions),
         results in the Base Salary being less than 65% of the highest Base
         Salary to which Officer has ever been subject pursuant to this
         Agreement (as identified on Schedule A).

             (5) "Incumbent Board' means the individuals who, as of the date of
         this Agreement, constitute the Board and any other individual who
         becomes a director of Parent after that date and whose election or
         nomination for election by Parent's shareholders was approved by a vote
         of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent
         Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose
         initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or
         threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of
         directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
         consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board.

             (6) "Normal Retirement' shall have the meaning given to such term
         in Section 1.27 of the Long-term Incentive Plan.

             (7) "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of a dismissal or other action by the Company following (A)
         Officer's continued failure to substantially perform his duties and
         responsibilities as described in Section 1 (other than any such failure
         resulting from Officer's physical or mental impairment or incapacity)


<PAGE>


         after written demand for substantial performance is delivered by the
         Board or the Chief Executive Officer specifically identifying the
         manner in which the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, as the case
         may be, believes Officer has not substantially performed such duties
         and responsibilities, (B) Officer's engaging in misconduct that is
         materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, or (C) a
         material violation by Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For
         purposes of clause (B) of this paragraph, an act, or failure to act, on
         Officer's part shall be considered "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by
         Officer not in good faith and without reasonable belief that such act,
         or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.

             (8)  "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the failure by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in Section 7(f) on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(f).

     6.  Nonpublic Information.

         (a)  Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with his
employment  with the Company,  he has  received,  and will  continue to receive,
various  information  regarding  the Company and its  business,  operations  and
affairs.  All such information,  to the extent not publicly available other than
as a result of a  disclosure  by  Officer in  violation  of this  Agreement,  is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

         (b)  Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof and
continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment,  he will
keep all  Nonpublic  Information  confidential  and will not,  without the prior
written  consent  of the  Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  disclose  any
Nonpublic  Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in  connection  with the  performance  of his services to the Company
hereunder;  provided,  however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent  Officer from (1)  disclosing  any  Nonpublic  Information  to any other
employee of the Company or to any  representative  or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably  necessary or  appropriate  (in Officer's  judgment) in
connection  with the  performance by Officer of his duties and  responsibilities
hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic  Information as required by applicable
law,  rule,  regulation  or legal  process (but only after  compliance  with the
provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

         (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable
law,  rule,  regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic  Information,
Officer  will notify  Parent  promptly so that the Company may seek a protective
order or other  appropriate  remedy or, in the Company's sole discretion,  waive
compliance  with the terms of this Section,  and Officer will fully cooperate in
any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective  order or other remedy.
If no such protective  order or other remedy is obtained,  or the Company waives
compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will furnish or disclose only
that  portion  of the  Nonpublic  Information  as is legally  required  and will
exercise all reasonable  efforts to obtain reliable  assurance that confidential
treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is so disclosed.

     7.  Miscellaneous Provisions.

         (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

         (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the highest non-usurious rate permitted by applicable federal, state
or local law.

         (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,



<PAGE>

without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

         (d) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

         (e) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

             (1) If to Parent or the Company, 1400 Williams Square West, 5205
         North O'Connor Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, Attention: General
         Counsel.

             (2) If to Officer, the address of Officer set forth below Officer's
         signature on the signature page of this Agreement, and marked
         "Confidential."

         (f) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the
business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), by a written agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to Officer, to expressly assume and agree to perform the
obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

         (g)  Assignment

             (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
          described in subsection (f) of this Section, the rights and
          obligations of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be
          assigned, in whole or in part, by the Company to any other person or
          entity without the express written consent of Officer.

             (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant
          to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer
          to any other person or entity without the express written consent of
          the Board.

         (h) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to
the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,  permitted
assigns, personal and legal representatives,  executors, administrators,  heirs,
distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

         (i) Amendment and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no provision
of this  Agreement  may be amended or  otherwise  modified,  and no right of any
party to this Agreement may be waived,  unless such  amendment,  modification or
waiver is agreed to in a written  instrument  signed by Officer  and Parent (and
any dated and signed Schedule A, as described in subsection (o) of this Section,
shall constitute such an instrument).  Beginning on the fifth anniversary of the
date  hereof,  unless a Change of Control  shall have  occurred or be pending or
contemplated, Parent may amend, modify, or waive any provision of, or terminate,
this  Agreement  upon sixty (60) days  notice  without  the  consent of Officer;
provided that any such amendment,  modification,  waiver or termination shall be
made to all  severance  agreements  of Parent  covering  all  officers of Parent
similarly  situated  to  Officer.  No  waiver  by  either  party  hereto  of, or
compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by
the  other  party  hereto  shall be  deemed a waiver of  similar  or  dissimilar
provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.


<PAGE>


         (j) Complete Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement constitute the
complete  understanding  and  agreement  among the parties  with  respect to the
subject matter hereof, and no agreements or representations,  oral or otherwise,
express or implied,  with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by
either party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

         (k) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED IN, AND IS
INTENDED  TO BE  PERFORMED  IN,  THE  STATE OF  TEXAS  AND  SHALL  BE  GOVERNED,
CONSTRUED,  INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE  LAWS OF
THE STATE OF TEXAS.

         (l) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
 Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under
 or in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to
 Officer, if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The
 Company shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs
 incurred by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or
 controversy under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether
 such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

         (m) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

         (n) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections and
paragraphs of this  Agreement  have been inserted as a matter of  convenience of
reference  only and shall not affect the meaning or  construction  of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this  Agreement to a "Section,"  "subsection,"  "paragraph,"  "subparagraph"  or
"Schedule"  shall be considered to be  references  to the  appropriate  Section,
subsection,   paragraph,   subparagraph  or  Schedule,   respectively,  of  this
Agreement.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  all  words  used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular  words shall  include the plural and all plural words shall include
the  singular.  As used in this  Agreement,  the  term  "including'  shall  mean
"including, but not limited to."

         (o) Schedule A. Schedule A may be replaced at any time and from time to
time to reflect a change in the Base Salary; provided, however, that no Schedule
A  attached  hereto  shall be  effective  unless it  contains a date and bears a
signature of approval on behalf of Officer and a signature of approval on behalf
of Parent; and provided further,  however, that if at any time two or more dated
and signed  copies of Schedule A conflict  with each  other,  the later dated of
such copies shall control.

         (p) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of this
Agreement is held to be illegal,  invalid or unenforceable  under the present or
future  laws  effective  during  the term of this  Agreement,  (1) such  term or
provision  shall be fully  severable,  (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced  as if such  term  or  provision  had  never  comprised  a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining  terms and  provisions of this  Agreement  shall
remain in full  force and  effect  and shall  not be  affected  by the  illegal,
invalid  or  unenforceable  term or  provision  or by its  severance  from  this
Agreement.  Furthermore,  in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision,  there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal,  invalid or unenforceable  term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

         (q) Execution by Parent. The execution of this Agreement by Parent
shall  constitute an  acceptance  of, and an agreement to be bound by, the terms
and  provisions of this  Agreement by Parent and each of its direct and indirect
wholly-owned subsidiaries,  and Parent hereby agrees to cause each of its direct
and indirect wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  now and in the future, to fully comply
with all  obligations  applicable  to the Company  pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.

         (r) Effect on Other Rights. Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company, a
Delaware  corporation  ("PPPC"),  and Officer have previously  entered into that
certain Severance  Agreement  effective January 1, 1996 (the "Original Severance
Agreement"). Effective as of the date hereof, PPPC has merged with and into MESA
Operating Co., a Delaware  corporation  and a direct wholly owned  subsidiary of
Parent ("Merger Sub"), with Merger Sub being the surviving entity of such merger
(the  "Merger").  Parent hereby  expressly  assumes and agrees to perform PPPC's



<PAGE>

obligations under Section 5(e) of the Original  Severance  Agreement in the same
manner and to the same  extent  that PPPC  would be  required  to  perform  such
obligations, and Officer hereby acknowledges that the form and substance of such
assumption  is  satisfactory  to  Officer.  Each of Parent  and  Officer  hereby
acknowledges,  covenants and agrees that (i) the Merger constitutes a "Change in
Control" (as such term is defined in the Original Severance Agreement), (ii) the
terms and provisions of this Agreement are not intended to, shall not, and shall
not be deemed to, supersede,  limit or in any way affect any of Officer's rights
under  Section  5(e) of the  Original  Severance  Agreement  to receive  certain
payments  as a  result  of a  termination  of  Officer's  employment  with  PPPC
occurring  within one year  after  consummation  of the  Merger (a "MESA  Merger
Termination"), and (iii) other than as set forth in Section 5(e) of the Original
Severance Agreement,  Officer shall not be entitled to receive any payment under
this  Agreement  as a result of a MESA  Merger  Termination.  Parent and Officer
hereby agree that,  except for the rights,  duties and obligations of Parent and
Officer arising as a result of a MESA Merger Termination as set forth in Section
5(e) of the Original Severance  Agreement,  the Original Severance  Agreement is
hereby completely and irrevocably terminated in all respects effective as of the
date hereof,  and all terms and provisions of the Original  Severance  Agreement
other than Section 5(e) as such section  relates to the MESA Merger  Termination
are replaced and  superseded in all respects by the terms and provisions of this
Agreement.







                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)



<PAGE>





     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                        By:    /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                            -----------------------------------
                        Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                        Title: Executive Vice President



                        OFFICER:


                         /s/ Larry N. Paulsen
                        ---------------------------------------
                        Larry N. Paulsen

                        Address:

                        ---------------------------------------

                        ---------------------------------------


<PAGE>





                 CONSENT OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.

     Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., a Delaware  corporation formerly named
MESA  Operating  Co. into which Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company was merged,
hereby consents to the partial termination,  replacement and supersession of the
Original  Severance  Agreement  (as  defined  in Section  7(r) of the  foregoing
Severance  Agreement)  to the extent  provided in Section 7(r) of the  foregoing
Severance Agreement.



                             PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.


                             By:    /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                 -------------------------------------
                             Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                             Title: Executive Vice President



<PAGE>



                                   Schedule A

                     Attached to Severance Agreement between

                      Pioneer Natural Resources Company and
                                Larry N. Paulsen




BASE Salary:

         Effective Date                                     Amount

         January 1, 2005                                    $241,000.00





















Dated and Approved as of _______________:

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY               OFFICER:


By:      /s/ Scott D. Sheffield                 /s/ Larry N. Paulsen
     ---------------------------------------    -----------------------------
Name:   Scott D. Sheffield                      Larry N. Paulsen
Title:  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman



<PAGE>


                                   Schedule B

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT


NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(c) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment under Section  5(d)(2)(c) of the Severance  Agreement offered to me,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.

     I  acknowledge  that I  initially  executed  a General  Release  Agreement,
containing the same terms and conditions as this General Release Agreement, more
than seven days prior to the date appearing below and placed the General Release
Agreement in the mail  addressed to the Company.  I further  acknowledge  that I
have had at least  seven  days  since the date of  execution  of the  originally
executed  General  Release  Agreement  in  which to  reconsider  and  revoke  my
agreement  to the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this  General  Release
Agreement.


Date signed:
              -----------------          ------------------------------------
                                         Signature of Officer

Date signed:
              -----------------          ------------------------------------
                                         Signature of Officer

<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1023.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.23
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.23

                                  AMENDMENT TO
                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Amendment is dated and effective February 19, 2002, and is attached to
and  made a part of  that  certain  Severance  Agreement  ("Agreement")  between
Pioneer Natural  Resources Company  ("Parent") and Larry N. Paulsen  ("Officer")
dated August 8, 1997.

     In  regard  to  the  provisions   relating  to  a  Change  in  Control  and
Termination, paragraph 5(e)(1)(D) is hereby amended as follows:

          "A continuation of  all health  insurance coverage  applicable  at the
     time of such  Termination of  Employment to  Officer and his/her  immediate
     family  under any  Benefit Plan  until  such  Officer  reaches  the  age of
     sixty-five (65),  or the  age upon  which such Officer becomes eligible for
     Medicare benefits as  determined  by the  Social  Security  Administration,
     whichever is later ("Medicare Age");

               "(i) For the first three years of such continued health insurance
          coverage, the premium charged to the Officer shall be the same as that
          charged to parent  company officers  of the  successor  entity  or the
          premium existing prior to the Change in Control, whichever is less;

               (ii) Following  the first  three years  of such  extended  health
          insurance coverage and continuing until such Officer  reaches Medicare
          Age,  the premium for  such coverage  charged the Officer shall be the
          Company's,  or its successor's,  COBRA premium  in effect  during such
          time; and

               (iii) Such health  insurance coverage shall provide benefits at a
          level at least comparable to those  being provided prior to the Change
          in Control, or better if better coverage is  offered to parent company
          officers of the successor entity."

     Except as to the extent modified by this Amendment, the Agreement is hereby
ratified and confirmed in all respects.


                                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                                       By:      /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                          ----------------------------------
                                       Name:    Mark L. Withrow
                                       Title:   Executive Vice President


                                       OFFICER


                                        /s/ Larry N. Paulsen
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       Larry N. Paulsen


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1024.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.24
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.24

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance  Agreement  (this  "Agreement")  is entered into,  effective
August 24,  1999,  between  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  and  Danny  Kellum  (the  "Officer").  As  used  in this
Agreement,  the term "Company"  shall be deemed to include Parent and its direct
or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1.  Position and Duties.  Officer  shall  initially  serve  Company as Vice
President - Domestic  Operations,  and, in so doing,  shall  report to Company's
Board of Directors (the "Board"),  Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "Chief
Executive  Officer") or such  officers of Company as is  prescribed by Company's
bylaws,  by  resolutions  of the Board or by  direction  of the Chief  Executive
Officer.  Officer shall have  supervision  and control over, and  responsibility
for, such management and operational functions of the Company currently assigned
to such  position,  and shall have such other or  different  functions,  powers,
duties and  responsibilities  (including  holding officer  positions with one or
more  subsidiaries  of Parent),  as may from time to time be  prescribed  by the
Board or the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any other  Company  officer  to whom
Officer reports, so long as such functions, powers and duties are reasonable and
customary  for a Vice  President  - Domestic  Operations  serving an  enterprise
comparable  to Company.  Employee's  failure to accept and perform such other or
different  functions,  powers or duties shall be deemed to be a  Termination  of
Employment  by  voluntary  action  of  Employee,  and  shall  not  constitute  a
Termination for Good Reason.

     2.  Devotion of  Efforts.  So long as Officer is serving the Company in the
capacities  described in Section 1, he/she shall devote his/her full time, skill
and  attention  and his/her best efforts  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and  affairs  of the  Company  to the extent  necessary  to  discharge
faithfully  and  efficiently  his/her  duties and  responsibilities,  except for
usual,  ordinary and customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or
other  disability  or such  periods of leave as are  approved  in writing by the
Board or the Chief Executive  Officer.  The provisions of this Section shall not
be construed to prevent Officer from making  investments in other  businesses or
enterprises,  so long as such investments do not violate the Company's  conflict
of interest  policies or require  the  provision  of services by Officer to such
businesses  or  enterprises  to an extent that would  interfere  in any material
respect with the  performance of Officer's  duties and  responsibilities  to the
Company.

     3. Compensation.

        (a) Base Salary. As compensation for Officer's services, the
Company shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per
annum (the "Base Salary"). The Base Salary shall be payable in substantially
equal semi-monthly installments. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the
"Compensation Committee") may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant
such increases, or effect such reductions, in the Base Salary as the

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       1


<PAGE>


Compensation Committee considers appropriate in accordance with such
compensation guidelines and policies as it may establish from time to time. The
Base Salary applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's employment
with the Company, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall be
identified on Schedule A attached hereto, which shall be amended periodically to
reflect any increases or reductions effected by the Compensation Committee.

        (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in addition
to the Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the Compensation
Committee may award in accordance with such compensation guidelines and policies
as it may establish from time to time.

        (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or other arrangement
made available now or in the future by the Company to the officers of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms, conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

        (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the
number of paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from
time to time for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given
by the Company to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer  shall  initially  be required to perform  his/her
duties and  responsibilities  hereunder at Company's  offices located in Irving,
Texas.  If  the  Company   requires   Officer  to  perform  his/her  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of Irving,  Texas (a "New  Location") and, within 30 days after receiving
notice thereof,  Officer accepts such relocation rather than terminating his/her
employment  with the Company  pursuant to Section 5(a), the Company shall pay to
Officer,  or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of reasonably detailed
evidence thereof), such sums as are provided for under the Relocation Policy for
Exempt  Employees as  established by Company.  Officer's  failure to accept such
relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,  shall be deemed to be
a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not
constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5.  Termination of Employment.

        (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his/her officer position with Company) shall be terminated upon the
death, Disability (as defined in subsection (f)(3) of this Section) or Normal
Retirement (as defined in subsection (f)(5) of this Section) of Officer. In
addition, Officer's employment with the Company (including his/her officer
position with Company) may be terminated at any time and for any reason as a
result of a dismissal by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by
Officer. Any such termination of employment is referred to herein as a
"Termination of Employment."

        (b)  Notice of Termination.

             (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer in a written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the opinion of the
         Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such Disability is
         the reason for the Termination of Employment.

             (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to Company by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that Officer is
         retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of Employment,
         which shall be not less than 30 days following the date such notice is
         received by Company.

             (3) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a dismissal
         by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) shall be
         communicated by the Company to Officer by a written notice thereof.
         Such notice shall state whether or not (in the Company's opinion) the
         Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for Cause (as

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       2


<PAGE>


         defined in subsection (f)(6) of this Section) and, if so, shall set
         forth in reasonable detail facts and circumstances constituting a basis
         for such Termination for Cause.

             (4) Any Termination of Employment that is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Company by written
         notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in Officer's
         opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a Termination for
         Good Reason (as defined in subsection (f)(7) of this Section) and, if
         so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances
         claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good Reason. Such notice
         shall also specify the date of such Termination of Employment, which
         (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute a Termination for
         Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following the date such
         notice is received by Company.

        (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this
Agreement, the date of a Termination of Employment shall be (1) if the
Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, the date of such
death, (2) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's
Disability, the date on which the notice described in subsection (b)(1) of this
Section is received by Officer, (3) if the Termination of Employment is the
result of Officer's Normal Retirement, the date specified in the notice
described in subsection (b)(2) of this Section, (4) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of
Officer's Disability), the date on which the notice described in subsection
(b)(3) of this Section is received by the Officer, or such later date as may be
specified by the Company in such notice, and (5) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result
of Officer's Normal Retirement), the date specified in the notice described in
subsection (b)(4) of this Section, or such earlier date as the Company may
specify, provided that if such date specified by Company is less than 30 days
following the date Company received notice from Employee, then Company agrees to
pay officer an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of Officer's Base Salary,
which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
Employment.

        (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The
provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of or at any
time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection (f)(2) of this
Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of this Section shall apply
only to any Termination of Employment prior to a Change in Control.

             (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his/her estate or personal representative):

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which amount
                  shall be paid in cash within 30 days following the date of
                  such Termination of Employment.

             (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       3


<PAGE>



         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (C) A lump sum amount equal to one full
                  year's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment, as identified on Schedule A), which
                  amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and Officer's immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and constitutes
         a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement) and does
         not constitute a Termination for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the first normal
                  semi-monthly Base Salary payment date immediately succeeding
                  the date of such Termination of Employment; and

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

             (4) Payment Contingent on Release. If Officer's
         Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control (and only in
         that event), and Officer is otherwise entitled to the payment provided
         in subsection (d)(2) of this Section, then such payment shall be
         subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's execution of a General
         Release Agreement in favor of the Company in substantially the form and
         substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule B.

        (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any Termination of Employment occurring at the time
of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.

             (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result of a

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       4


<PAGE>



         voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified
                  on Schedule A) pro-rated through and including the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, to the extent not already
                  paid, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.99 times
                  the sum of (i) Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on
                  the date of such Termination of Employment, as identified on
                  Schedule A), plus (ii) the greater of the then current year's
                  targeted bonus or actual bonus award (if applicable) for
                  Officer, which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment;

                       (C) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any employee Benefit Plan
                  or other arrangement made available now or in the future by
                  the Company to its employees, through and including the date
                  of such Termination of Employment, which amounts shall be
                  payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
                  Benefit Plan;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his/her immediate
                  family under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (e)(1)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason or for
         Failure to Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         subsection (e) to the contrary, if the Termination of Employment (i) is
         the result of a voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a
         Termination for Good Reason, and occurs at least six months, but not
         more than one year, following a Change in Control, or (ii) whether
         voluntary or involuntary, occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his/her duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

             (3) Excise Tax and Gross-Up Payment.

                       (A) If any portion of such compensation
                  constitutes a parachute payment (a "Payment") and is subject
                  to the Excise Tax (hereinafter defined), then Company shall,
                  in addition to providing such compensation, pay the Gross-Up
                  Payment (hereinafter defined) to Officer in the manner
                  described below. For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "Excise
                  Tax" shall mean the tax imposed pursuant to section 4999 of
                  the Code and any interest or penalties incurred by the Officer
                  with respect to such Excise Tax, and (ii) "Gross-Up Payment"
                  shall mean, with respect to any compensation provided to the
                  Officer by Company (including without limitation the payments
                  provided for under this Agreement and any payments to the
                  Officer under any employee benefit plan, including without
                  limitation the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan, or other
                  arrangement) that is subject to the Excise Tax, an amount

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       5


<PAGE>


                  that, after reduction of the amount of such Gross-Up Payment
                  for all federal, state, and local tax (including any interest
                  or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes) to which the
                  Gross-Up Payment is subject (including the Excise Tax to which
                  the Gross-Up Payment is subject), is equal to the amount of
                  the Excise Tax to which such compensation is subject. For
                  purposes of determining the amount of any Gross-Up Payment,
                  Officer shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the
                  highest marginal rate of taxation and state and local taxes,
                  if applicable, at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the
                  state and locality of residence of the Officer on the Date of
                  Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
                  taxes that could be obtained from deduction of such state and
                  local taxes, if any.

                       (B) Subject to the provisions of subsection
                  5(e)(3)(C), all determinations required to be made under this
                  subsection 5(e)(3), including whether and when a Gross-Up
                  Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and
                  the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such
                  determination, shall be made by the accounting firm which
                  performed the audit of the Company for the year preceding the
                  year in which the Change in Control occurred (the "Accounting
                  Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations
                  both to the Company and the Officer within 15 business days of
                  the receipt of notice from the Officer that there has been a
                  Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company.
                  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant
                  or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the
                  Change in Control, the Officer shall appoint another
                  nationally recognized accounting firm to make the
                  determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall
                  then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All
                  fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely
                  by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant
                  to this subsection 5(e)(3), shall be paid by the Company to
                  the Officer within five days of the receipt of the Accounting
                  Firm's determination. If the Accounting Firm determines that
                  no Excise Tax is payable by the Officer, it shall furnish the
                  Officer with a written opinion that failure to report the
                  Excise Tax on the Officer's applicable federal income or
                  excise tax return would not result in the imposition of a
                  negligence or similar penalty. Any determination by the
                  Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the
                  Officer.

                       (C) The Officer shall notify the Company in
                  writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if
                  successful, would require the payment by the Company of the
                  Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given no later
                  than ten business days after the Officer is informed in
                  writing of such claim. The Officer shall not pay such claim
                  prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the
                  date on which it gives such notice to the Company (or such
                  shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes
                  with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies
                  the Officer in writing prior to the expiration of such period
                  that it desires to contest such claim, (i) the Officer shall
                  accept legal representation with respect to such claim by an
                  attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (ii) cooperate
                  with the Company in good faith in order to effectively contest
                  such claim, and (iii) permit the Company to participate in any
                  proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, the
                  Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses
                  (including legal and accounting fees and additional interest
                  and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and
                  shall indemnify and hold the Officer harmless, on an after-tax
                  basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest
                  and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of
                  such representation and payment of costs and expenses. The
                  Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with
                  such contest to the extent relating to issues impacting
                  whether a Gross-Up Payment is payable hereunder. The Officer
                  shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be,
                  any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any
                  other taxing authority in connection with such contest.

                       (D) If any such claim referred to in
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(C) is made by the Internal Revenue Service
                  and the Company does not request the Officer to contest the
                  claim within the 30-day period following notice of the claim,
                  the Company shall pay to the Officer the amount of any
                  Gross-Up Payment owed to the Officer, but not previously paid

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       6

<PAGE>



                  pursuant to subsection 5(e)(3)(B), immediately upon the
                  expiration of such 30-day period. If any such claim is made by
                  the Internal Revenue Service and the Company requests the
                  Officer to contest such claim, the Company shall pay to the
                  Officer the amount of any Gross-Up Payment owed to the
                  Officer, but not previously paid under the provisions of
                  subsection 5(e)(3)(B), within five days of a Final
                  Determination of the liability of the Officer for such Excise
                  Tax. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Final Determination"
                  shall be deemed to occur with respect to a claim when (i)
                  there is a decision, judgment, decree or other order by any
                  court of competent jurisdiction, which decision, judgment,
                  decree or other order has become final, i.e., all allowable
                  appeals have been exhausted by either party to the action,
                  (ii) there is a closing agreement made under Section 7121 of
                  the Code, or (iii) the time for instituting a claim for refund
                  has expired, or if a claim was filed, the time for instituting
                  suit with respect thereto has expired.

             (4) Letter of Credit. Following a Change in Control,
         Parent (within 10 days following receipt of Officer's written request
         therefor), at its sole cost and expense, shall post an irrevocable
         letter of credit with a banking institution reasonably acceptable to
         Officer in an amount equal to the maximum amount of the aggregate cash
         payments that would be made to Officer pursuant to the provisions of
         paragraph (1) of this subsection if the provisions of paragraph (1) of
         this subsection were to become applicable. Such letter of credit shall
         contain provisions making the funds available thereunder to Officer by
         Officer's drafts drawn at sight at any time and from time to time. Such
         provisions shall permit Officer to present drafts (including drafts for
         partial draws) drawn at sight by presentation by Officer to the
         applicable banking institution of a written statement to the effect
         that the Company is in default on a payment to be made to Officer
         pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (setting forth the amount of
         such payment in default) and that Officer is not in default under, and
         has not breached the terms of, this Agreement. Parent shall continue to
         keep such letter of credit in place until the expiration of at least 60
         days following the date of a Termination of Employment occurring after
         the Change in Control.

             (5) Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement benefit obligations to Officer under
         any then existing retirement plan shall be fully funded to a Rabbi
         Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

        (f) Certain Definitions. As used in the Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

             (1) "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate
         consistent with, a reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially
         all officers of Company.

             (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence,
         following the Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:
         (i) an event that would constitute a Change in control as that term is
         defined in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor
         plan thereto, or (ii) Consummation of a Business Combination not
         otherwise constituting a Change in Control but, pursuant to which the
         Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the execution
         of the initial agreement is removed from, or replaced in, such capacity
         with respect to the corporation resulting from such Business
         Combination.

             (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or
         mental impairment or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the
         opinion of the Board, either (A) Officer is unable to continue to
         perform his/her duties and responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's
         condition entitles him to disability benefits under any Benefit Plan
         providing for the payment thereof.

             (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       7


<PAGE>



         in the Base Salary (other than prior reductions that were
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 80% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A) or (B)
         a reduction in the Base Salary (whether or nor an Across-the-Board
         Salary Reduction) that, when combined with the net effect of all prior
         increases and reductions in the Base Salary (whether or not
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 65% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as identified on Schedule A).

             (5) "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-term Incentive Plan.

             (6) "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination of Employment
         as a result of a dismissal by the Company following (A) Officer's
         continued failure to substantially perform his/her duties and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from Officer's
         physical or mental impairment or incapacity) after written demand for
         substantial performance is delivered by the Company specifically
         identifying the manner in which the Company believes Officer has not
         substantially performed his/her duties and responsibilities, (B)
         Officer's engaging in fraud or other misconduct that is injurious to
         the Company, monetarily or otherwise, (C) Officer's engaging in
         insubordination, (D) Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with,
         any written policy, guideline, rule or regulation of the Company which
         specifically provides that Officer may be dismissed (or his/her
         employment terminated) as a consequence of any such violation or
         failure to comply, (E) Officer's conviction of (or plea of guilty or
         nolo contendere to a charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor
         involving moral turpitude or financial misconduct, or (F) a material
         violation by Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For purposes of
         clause (B) above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be
         considered "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by Officer not in good
         faith and without reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act,
         was in the best interest of the Company.

             (7) "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a Termination of
         Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer within 30 days
         after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the Officer to an officer
         position junior to the officer position specified in Section 1 or to a
         non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary Reduction (as defined in
         paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the failure by Parent to
         obtain the assumption agreement described in Section 7(h) on or prior
         to a succession described in Section 7(h).

     6.  Nonpublic Information.

        (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with
his/her employment with the Company, he has received, and will continue to
receive, various information regarding the Company and its business, operations
and affairs. All such information, to the extent not publicly available other
than as a result of a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

        (b) Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof
and continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment, he
will keep all Nonpublic Information confidential and will not, without the prior
written consent of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, disclose any
Nonpublic Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his/her services to the Company
hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent Officer from (1) disclosing any Nonpublic Information to any other
employee of the Company or to any representative or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate (in Officer's judgment) in
connection with the performance by Officer of his/her duties and
responsibilities hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic Information as
required by applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process (but only after
compliance with the provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

        (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by,
applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic
Information, Officer will notify Parent promptly so that the Company may seek a

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       8


<PAGE>



protective order or other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole
discretion, waive compliance with the terms of this Section, and Officer will
fully cooperate in any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective
order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained,
or the Company waives compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will
furnish or disclose only that portion of the Nonpublic Information as is legally
required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is
so disclosed.

     7.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

        (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

        (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent (12%),
or (2) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Company's primary bank
lender, plus three percent (3%).

        (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,
without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

        (d) At-Will Employment. Officer acknowledges that his/her
employment with the Company is strictly "at-will", and that nothing contained in
this Agreement shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of
the Company, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Company to terminate
his/her employment at any time for any reason. Officer further acknowledges that
this Agreement is not an "employment agreement" or "employment contract"
(written or otherwise), as either term is used or defined in, or contemplated by
or under, (i) the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or
agreement to which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common
or case law.

        (e) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

        (f) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

             (1) If to Parent or the Company, 1400 Williams Square West, 5205
         North  O'Connor  Boulevard,  Irving,  Texas 75039,  Attention: General
         Counsel.

             (2) If to Officer, the address of Officer set forth below Officer's
         signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

        (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the
business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), by a written agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to Officer, to expressly assume and agree to perform the

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       9


<PAGE>



obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company would be required
to perform if no such succession had taken place.

        (h)  Assignment.

             (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
         described in subsection (h) of this Section, the rights and obligations
         of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole
         or in part, by the Company to any other person or entity without the
         express written consent of Officer.

             (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant to
         this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer to
         any other person or entity without the express written consent of the
         Board.

        (i) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall
inure to the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,
permitted assigns, personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

        (j) Amendment and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no
provision of this Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, and no right
of any party to this Agreement may be waived, unless such amendment,
modification or waiver is agreed to in a written instrument signed by Officer
and Parent (and any dated and signed Schedule A, as described in subsection (p)
of this Section, shall constitute such an instrument). Unless a Change of
Control shall have occurred or be pending or under consideration, Parent may
amend, modify, or waive any provision of, or terminate, this Agreement upon
sixty (60) days notice without the consent of Officer; provided that any such
amendment, modification, waiver or termination shall be made to all severance
agreements of Parent covering all officers of Parent similarly situated to
Officer. No waiver by either party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition
or provision of this Agreement to be performed by the other party hereto shall
be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same
or at any prior or subsequent time.

        (k) Complete Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes
all prior agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and the provisions of this Agreement constitute the complete
understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and no agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or
implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either
party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

        (l) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED
IN, AND IS INTENDED TO BE PERFORMED IN, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED, CONSTRUED, INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

        (m) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under or
in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer,
if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The Company
shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs incurred
by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy
under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

        (n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

        (o) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections
and paragraphs of this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this Agreement to a "Section," "subsection," "paragraph," "subparagraph" or
"Schedule" shall be considered to be references to the appropriate Section,

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       10


<PAGE>



subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or Schedule, respectively, of this
Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, all words used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular words shall include the plural and all plural words shall include
the singular. As used in this Agreement, the term "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."

        (p) Schedule A. Schedule A may be replaced at any time and
from time to time to reflect a change in the Base Salary; provided, however,
that no Schedule A attached hereto shall be effective unless it contains a date
and bears a signature of approval on behalf of Officer and a signature of
approval on behalf of Company; and provided further, however, that if at any
time two or more dated and signed copies of Schedule A conflict with each other,
the later dated of such copies shall control.

        (q) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present
or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or
provision shall be fully severable, (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced as if such term or provision had never comprised a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,
invalid or unenforceable term or provision or by its severance from this
Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

        (r) Execution by Company. The execution of this Agreement by
Company shall constitute an acceptance of, and an agreement to be bound by, the
terms and provisions of this Agreement by Company and each of its direct and
indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Company hereby agrees to cause each of
its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, now and in the future, to
fully comply with all obligations applicable to the Company pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)

                                                                         /s/ DK
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       11


<PAGE>





     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                            -----------------------------
                        Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                        Title: Executive Vice President




                        OFFICER:



                         /s/ Danny Kellum
                        ----------------------------------
                        Danny Kellum

                        Address:


                        ----------------------------------

                        ----------------------------------



              [Signature Page - Severance Agreement - Page 1 of 1]


<PAGE>





                                   Schedule A

                     Attached to Severance Agreement between
                      Pioneer Natural Resources Company and
                                  Danny Kellum





BASE Salary:

         Effective Date                                      Amount

         January 1, 2005                                     $330,000.00





















Dated and Approved as of _______________:

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY               OFFICER:


By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield                    /s/ Danny Kellum
   ---------------------------------------      -----------------------------
Name:  Scott D. Sheffield                       Danny Kellum
Title: Chief Executive Officer and Chairman







<PAGE>


                                   Schedule B

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT

NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit  Protection  Act, you are allowed at least 45 days from the date of your
receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to consider the
offer  made to you and to  return  an  executed  copy of this  form to the  Vice
President Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this form, you
have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under  Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the  Severance  Agreement,  I hereby
release and discharge Pioneer Natural Resources Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected  with, or relating in any way to my employment or the
termination of my employment with the Company.  Further in  consideration of the
payments and benefits offered to me under the Severance Agreement, I acknowledge
and agree that the  Released  Parties  may recover  from me any loss,  including
attorney's  fees and costs of  defending  against any claim  brought by me, that
they may suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment offered to me under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.

Date signed:
             --------------------              ------------------------------
                                               Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             --------------------              ------------------------------
                                               Signature of Officer

                                      B-1


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1025.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.25
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.25

                                  AMENDMENT TO
                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Amendment is dated and effective February 19, 2002, and is attached to
and  made a part of  that  certain  Severance  Agreement  ("Agreement")  between
Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company  ("Parent") and Danny L. Kellum  ("Officer")
dated August 24, 1999.

     In  regard  to  the  provisions   relating  to  a  Change  in  Control  and
Termination, paragraph 5(e)(1)(D) is hereby amended as follows:

          "A continuation  of all  health insurance  coverage applicable  at the
     time of such  Termination of  Employment to Officer  and his/her  immediate
     family under any  Benefit Plan until such Officer reaches the age of sixty-
     five (65), or the age upon which such Officer becomes eligible for Medicare
     benefits as determined by the Social Security Administration,  whichever is
     later ("Medicare Age");

               "(i) For the first three years of such continued health insurance
          coverage, the premium charged to the Officer shall be the same as that
          charged to parent  company officers  of the  successor  entity  or the
          premium existing prior to the Change in Control, whichever is less;

               (ii) Following  the first  three years  of such  extended  health
          insurance coverage and continuing  until such Officer reaches Medicare
          Age,  the premium  for such coverage  charged the Officer shall be the
          Company's,  or its successor's,  COBRA premium  in effect  during such
          time; and

               (iii) Such health  insurance coverage shall provide benefits at a
          level at least comparable to those  being provided prior to the Change
          in Control, or better if better coverage is  offered to parent company
          officers of the successor entity."

     Except as to the extent modified by this Amendment, the Agreement is hereby
ratified and confirmed in all respects.


                                            PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                                            By:   /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                            --------------------------------
                                            Name:   Mark L. Withrow
                                            Title:  Executive Vice President


                                            OFFICER


                                            /s/ Danny L. Kellum
                                            --------------------------------
                                            Danny L. Kellum

<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1026.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.26
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.26

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.
                               SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     This Severance Agreement  ("Agreement") is entered into,  effective January
1, 2005,  among  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  a  Delaware  corporation
("Parent"), Pioneer International Resources Company, a Delaware corporation that
is a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Parent,  and Pioneer Natural  Resources  Canada
Inc., a British Columbia,  Canada corporation that is a wholly-owned  subsidiary
of Pioneer  International  Resources Company (together herein,  "Company"),  and
Todd A. Dillabough  ("Officer").  As used in this Agreement,  the term "Company"
shall be deemed to  include  Company  and its  direct or  indirect  wholly-owned
subsidiaries.

                                    Recitals

     A.  Company  acknowledges  that  Officer is a  significant  employee of the
Company,  possessing skills and knowledge instrumental to the successful conduct
of the  Company's  business.  Company  is  willing  to  enter  into a  severance
arrangement  with  Officer  in order to better  ensure  itself of the  continued
management  services of Officer for itself and its subsidiaries and, in part, to
induce  Officer to continue to provide  those  services  and subject  himself to
certain restrictions regarding the use of Company information.

     B.  Officer is willing to  subject  himself to the  restrictions  mentioned
above in part to induce  Company to enter into a compensation  arrangement  that
provides  for,  among other  things,  the payment of certain  benefits  upon the
termination of Officer's employment under certain circumstances.

     Now,  therefore,  for and in  consideration  of the  mutual  covenants  and
agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties to this
Agreement hereby agree as follows:

     1. Position and Duties. Officer shall initially serve Company as President,
and, in so doing,  shall report to Company's  Board of Directors  (the "Board"),
Company's  President and chief executive officer (the "Chief Executive Officer")
or such officers of Company as is prescribed by Company's bylaws, by resolutions
of the Board or by direction of the Chief Executive Officer.  Officer shall have
supervision  and control  over,  and  responsibility  for, such  management  and
operational  functions of the Company currently  assigned to such position,  and
shall  have such other or  different  functions,  powers  and duties  (including
holding officer positions with one or more subsidiaries of Company), as may from
time to time be prescribed by the Board,  the Chief  Executive  Officer,  or any
other Company officer to whom Officer reports, so long as such functions, powers
and duties are reasonable  and customary for a serving an enterprise  comparable
to Company.  Officer's failure to accept and perform any such other or different
functions, powers or duties shall be deemed to be a Termination of Employment by
voluntary  action of Officer,  and shall not  constitute a Termination  for Good
Reason.

     2.  Devotion  of  Efforts.  So long as Officer  is  serving  Company in the
capacities  described  in  Section 1, he shall  devote his full time,  skill and
attention and his best efforts during normal  business hours to the business and
affairs of the  Company to the extent  necessary  to  discharge  faithfully  and
efficiently  his duties and  responsibilities,  except for usual,  ordinary  and
customary periods of vacation and absence due to illness or other disability, or
such  periods  of leave as are  approved  in  writing  by the Board or the Chief
Executive  Officer.  The  provisions  of this Section  shall not be construed to
prevent Officer from making  investments in other businesses or enterprises,  so
long as such  investments  do not  violate  the  Company's  conflict of interest
policies or require the  provision of services by Officer to such  businesses or
enterprises to an extent that would  interfere in any material  respect with the
performance of Officer's duties and responsibilities to the Company.

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                       -1-


<PAGE>



     3.  Compensation.

         (a) Base Salary. As compensation for Officer's services, the
Company shall pay Officer an annualized base salary of a specified amount per
annum (the "Base Salary"). The Base Salary shall be payable in substantially
equal semi-monthly installments. The Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of Parent (the "Compensation Committee") or Chief Executive Officer
may review the Base Salary periodically and may grant such increases, or effect
such reductions, in the Base Salary as the Compensation Committee or Chief
Executive Officer consider appropriate in accordance with such compensation
guidelines and policies as they may establish from time to time. The Base Salary
applicable from time to time for any period of Officer's employment with the
Company, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall be that as
reflected in the records of the Human Resources Department.

         (b) Bonuses. Officer shall be entitled to receive (in
addition to the Base Salary) such annual or other periodic bonus as the
Compensation Committee or Chief Executive Officer may award in accordance with
such compensation guidelines and policies as they may establish from time to
time.

         (c) Other Benefits. Officer shall be entitled to participate
in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or other arrangement
made available now or in the future by the Company to the officers of Company (a
"Benefit Plan"), subject to the terms, conditions and overall administration of
such Benefit Plan. Officer's participation in, or receipt of benefits under, any
Benefit Plan shall be in addition to (and not in lieu of) the Base Salary.

         (d) Vacations and Holidays. Officer shall be entitled to the
number of paid vacation days in each calendar year determined by Company from
time to time for its officers and shall be entitled to all paid holidays given
by the Company to its employees in general.

     4.  Relocation.  Officer shall  initially be required to perform his duties
and responsibilities hereunder at Company's offices located in Calgary, Alberta,
Canada.   If  the   Company   requires   Officer  to  perform   his  duties  and
responsibilities  at any  location  that is more than 50 miles from the  nearest
border of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, (a "New Location") and, within 30 days after
receiving   notice  thereof,   Officer  accepts  such  relocation   rather  than
terminating  his  employment  with the  Company  pursuant to Section  5(a),  the
Company shall pay to Officer, or shall reimburse Officer for (upon submission of
reasonably  detailed evidence thereof),  such sums as are provided for under the
Relocation  Policy for Exempt  Employees as  established  by Company.  Officer's
failure to accept such relocation within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,
shall be  deemed  to be a  Termination  of  Employment  by  voluntary  action of
Officer, and shall not constitute a Termination for Good Reason.

     5.  Termination of Employment.

         (a) Right to Terminate. Officer's employment with the Company
(including his officer position with Company) shall be terminated upon the
death, Disability (as defined in subsection (g)(3) of this Section) or Normal
Retirement (as defined in subsection (g)(6) of this Section) of Officer. In
addition, Officer's employment with the Company (including his officer position
with Company) may be terminated at any time and for any reason as a result of a
dismissal by the Company or as a result of a voluntary action by Officer. Any
such termination of employment is referred to herein as a "Termination of
Employment."

         (b) Notice of Termination.

             (1) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of Officer's Disability shall be communicated by the Company to Officer
         in a written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that, in the
         opinion of the Board, Officer is suffering from a Disability and such
         Disability is the reason for the Termination of Employment.

             (2) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of Officer's Normal Retirement shall be communicated by Officer to
         Company by a written notice thereof. Such notice shall state that
         Officer is retiring and shall specify the date of such Termination of
         Employment, which shall be not less than 30 days following the date
         such notice is received by Company.

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -2-


<PAGE>



             (3) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of Officer's
         Disability) shall be communicated by the Company to Officer by a
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in the
         Company's opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a
         Termination for Cause (as defined in subsection (g)(7) of this Section)
         and, if so, shall set forth in reasonable detail facts and
         circumstances constituting a basis for such Termination for Cause.

             (4) Any Termination of Employment that is the result
         of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's
         Normal Retirement) shall be communicated by Officer to Company by
         written notice thereof. Such notice shall state whether or not (in
         Officer's opinion) the Termination of Employment constitutes a
         Termination for Good Reason (as defined in subsection (g)(8) of this
         Section) and, if so, shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
         circumstances claimed as the basis for such Termination for Good
         Reason. Such notice shall also specify the date of such Termination of
         Employment, which (if the Termination of Employment does not constitute
         a Termination for Good Reason) shall be not less than 30 days following
         the date such notice is received by Company.

         (c) Date of Termination of Employment. For purposes of this
Agreement, the date of a Termination of Employment shall be (1) if the
Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, the date of such
death, (2) if the Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's
Disability, the date on which the notice described in subsection (b)(1) of this
Section is received by Officer, (3) if the Termination of Employment is the
result of Officer's Normal Retirement, the date specified in the notice
described in subsection (b)(2) of this Section, (4) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a dismissal by the Company (but is not the result of
Officer's Disability), the date on which the notice described in subsection
(b)(3) of this Section is received by the Officer, or such later date as may be
specified by the Company in such notice, and (5) if the Termination of
Employment is the result of a voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result
of Officer's Normal Retirement), the date specified in the notice described in
subsection (b)(4) of this Section, or such earlier date as the Company may
specify, provided that if such date specified by Company is less than 30 days
following the date Company received notice from Employee, then Company agrees to
pay Officer an amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary,
which amount shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
Employment.

         (d) Payments Due Upon Termination of Employment. The
provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this Section shall apply to any
applicable Termination of Employment, whether occurring prior to, at the time of
or at any time following a Change in Control (as defined in subsection (g)(2) of
this Section); and the provisions of subsection (d)(2) of this Section shall
apply only if such Termination of Employment is prior to a Change in Control.

             (1) Death, Disability or Normal Retirement. If the
         Termination of Employment is the result of Officer's death, Disability
         or Normal Retirement, the Company shall pay the following amounts to
         Officer (or his estate or personal representative):

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the first normal semi-monthly Base Salary
                  payment date immediately succeeding the date of such
                  Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan; and

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as reflected in the records of the Human

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -3-


<PAGE>



                  Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in cash
                  within 30 days following the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (2) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary
         action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (C) An amount equal to one full year's Base
                  Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of such Termination
                  of Employment, as reflected in the records of the Human
                  Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in cash on
                  the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his immediate family
                  under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (d)(2)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (3) Termination for Cause or Not for Good Reason. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and constitutes
         a Termination for Cause or (ii) is the result of a voluntary action by
         Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal Retirement) and does
         not constitute a Termination for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the
         following amounts to Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the first normal semi-monthly Base Salary
                  payment date immediately succeeding the date of such
                  Termination of Employment; and

                       (B) Any amounts arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan.

         (e) Additional Provisions Applicable Upon Termination of
Employment Concurrent with or Following Change in Control. The following
provisions shall apply to any such Termination of Employment occurring at the
time of, or at any time within one year following, a Change in Control.

             (1) Termination for Good Reason or Not for Cause. If
         the Termination of Employment (i) is the result of a dismissal by the
         Company (but is not the result of Officer's Disability) and does not
         constitute a Termination for Cause, or (ii) is the result of a

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -4-


<PAGE>



         voluntary action by Officer (but is not the result of Officer's Normal
         Retirement) and constitutes a Termination for Good Reason, the Company
         shall pay the following amounts, and provide the following benefits, to
         Officer:

                       (A) The Base Salary (at the rate in effect
                  on the date of such Termination of Employment, as reflected in
                  the records of the Human Resources Department) pro-rated
                  through and including the date of such Termination of
                  Employment, to the extent not already paid, which amount shall
                  be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (B) A lump sum in cash equal to 2.00 times
                  Officer's Base Salary (at the rate in effect on the date of
                  such Termination of Employment, as reflected in the records of
                  the Human Resources Department), which amount shall be paid in
                  cash on the date of such Termination of Employment;

                       (C) Any amount arising from Officer's
                  participation in, or benefits under, any Benefit Plan through
                  and including the date of such Termination of Employment,
                  which amounts shall be payable in accordance with the terms
                  and conditions of such Benefit Plan;

                       (D) For a period of one year following the
                  date of such Termination of Employment, a continuation of all
                  health insurance coverage applicable at the time of such
                  Termination of Employment to Officer and his immediate family
                  under any Benefit Plan; and

                       (E) With respect to a Termination of
                  Employment described in subsection (e)(1)(i) of this Section,
                  if the date of Termination of Employment is less than thirty
                  (30) days after the date of notice thereof, an amount equal to
                  one-twelfth (1/12) of the Officer's Base Salary, which amount
                  shall be paid in cash on the date of such Termination of
                  Employment.

             (2) Voluntary Termination Not for Good Reason or for
         Failure to Relocate. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         subsection (e) to the contrary, if the Termination of Employment (i) is
         the result of a voluntary action by Officer, does not constitute a
         Termination for Good Reason, and occurs at least six months, but not
         more than one year, following a Change in Control, or (ii) whether
         voluntary or involuntary, occurs at the time of, or at any time within
         one year following, a Change in Control and following the Company's
         requiring the Officer to perform his duties and responsibilities
         hereunder at a New Location, which relocation is not accepted by
         Officer within 30 days after receiving notice thereof, then the Company
         shall pay to Officer all amounts that would be payable pursuant to
         subsection (d)(2) of this Section had such Termination of Employment
         occurred prior to the Change in Control and constituted a Termination
         for Good Reason.

             (3) Retirement Benefits Funded. Upon a Change in Control, any
         accrued but unfunded retirement benefit obligations to Officer under
         any then existing retirement plan shall be fully funded to a Rabbi
         Trust for the benefit of such Officer, which amount shall be paid in
         cash on the date of such Change in Control.

         (f) Payment Contingent on Release. If, upon termination,
Officer is entitled to a payment provided in subsection (d)(2) or (e) of this
Section 5, then such payment shall be subject to, and contingent upon, Officer's
execution of a General Release Agreement in favor of the Company in
substantially the form and substance as the one attached hereto as Schedule A.

         (g) Certain Definitions. As used in this Section and elsewhere
in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
indicated:

             (1) "Across-the-Board Salary Reduction" shall mean a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is a part of, and is at a rate
         consistent with, a reduction in the base salaries paid to substantially
         all officers of Company.

             (2) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence,
         following the Effective Date hereof, of either of the following events:
         (i) an event that would constitute a Change in control as that term is

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -5-


<PAGE>



         defined in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, or any successor
         plan thereto, or (ii) consummation of a Business Combination not
         otherwise constituting a Change in Control but, pursuant to which the
         Person serving as Chief Executive Officer at the time of the execution
         of the initial agreement is removed from, or replaced in, such capacity
         with respect to the corporation resulting from such Business
         Combination.

             (3) "Disability" shall mean Officer's physical or
         mental impairment or incapacity of sufficient severity that, in the
         opinion of the Board, either (A) Officer is unable to continue to
         perform his duties and responsibilities hereunder or (B) Officer's
         condition entitles him to disability benefits under any Benefit Plan
         providing for the payment thereof.

             (4) "Excessive Salary Reduction" shall mean (A) a
         reduction in the Base Salary that is not an Across-the-Board Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (1) of this subsection) and that,
         when combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions
         in the Base Salary (other than prior reductions that were
         Across-the-Board Salary Reductions), results in the Base Salary being
         less than 80% of the highest Base Salary to which Officer has ever been
         subject pursuant to this Agreement (as reflected in the records of the
         Human Resources Department) or (B) a reduction in the Base Salary
         (whether or not an Across-the-Board Salary Reduction) that, when
         combined with the net effect of all prior increases and reductions in
         the Base Salary (whether or not Across-the-Board Salary Reductions),
         results in the Base Salary being less than 65% of the highest Base
         Salary to which Officer has ever been subject pursuant to this
         Agreement (as reflected in the records of the Human Resources
         Department).

             (5) "Incumbent Board" means the individuals who, as
         of the date of this Agreement, constitute the board of directors of
         Parent and any other individual who becomes a director of Parent after
         that date and whose election or nomination for election by Parent's
         shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
         directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
         purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs
         as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to
         the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened
         solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other
         than the Incumbent Board.

             (6) "Normal  Retirement"  shall have the meaning given to such term
         in Section  1.29 of the  Long-Term Incentive Plan.

             (7) "Termination for Cause" shall mean a Termination
         of Employment as a result of a dismissal by the Company following (A)
         Officer's continued failure to substantially perform his duties and
         responsibilities (other than any such failure resulting from Officer's
         physical or mental impairment or incapacity) after written demand for
         substantial performance is delivered by the Company specifically
         identifying the manner in which the Company believes Officer has not
         substantially performed his duties and responsibilities, (B) Officer's
         engaging in fraud or other misconduct that is injurious to the Company,
         monetarily or otherwise, (C) Officer's engaging in insubordination, (D)
         Officer's violation of, or failure to comply with, any written policy,
         guideline, rule or regulation of the Company which specifically
         provides that Officer may be dismissed (or his employment terminated)
         as a consequence of any such violation or failure to comply, (E)
         Officer's conviction of (or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a
         charge of) any felony, or any crime or misdemeanor involving moral
         turpitude or financial misconduct, or (F) a material violation by
         Officer of the provisions of Section 6. For purposes of subsection (B)
         above, an act, or failure to act, on Officer's part shall be considered
         "misconduct" if done, or omitted, by Officer not in good faith and
         without reasonable belief that such act, or failure to act, was in the
         best interest of the Company.

             (8) "Termination for Good Reason" shall mean a
         Termination of Employment as a result of voluntary action by Officer
         within 30 days after receiving notice of (A) the demotion of the
         Officer to an officer position junior to the officer position specified
         in Section 1 or to a non-officer position, (B) an Excessive Salary
         Reduction (as defined in paragraph (4) of this subsection), or (C) the
         failure by Parent to obtain the assumption agreement described in
         Section 7(g) on or prior to a succession described in Section 7(g).

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -6-


<PAGE>




     6.  Nonpublic Information.

         (a) Officer hereby acknowledges that, in connection with his
employment with the Company, he has received, and will continue to receive,
various information regarding the Company and its business, operations and
affairs. All such information, to the extent not publicly available other than
as a result of a disclosure by Officer in violation of this Agreement, is
referred to herein as the "Nonpublic Information."

         (b) Officer hereby agrees that, from and after the date hereof
and continuing until three (3) years following a Termination of Employment, he
will keep all Nonpublic Information confidential and will not, without the prior
written consent of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, disclose any
Nonpublic Information in any manner whatsoever or use any Nonpublic Information
other than in connection with the performance of his services to the Company
hereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
prevent Officer from (1) disclosing any Nonpublic Information to any other
employee of the Company or to any representative or agent of the Company (such
as an independent accountant, engineer, attorney or financial advisor) when such
disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate (in Officer's judgment) in
connection with the performance by Officer of his duties and responsibilities
hereunder or (2) disclosing any Nonpublic Information as required by applicable
law, rule, regulation or legal process (but only after compliance with the
provisions of subsection (c) of this Section).

         (c) If Officer is requested pursuant to, or required by,
applicable law, rule, regulation or legal process to disclose any Nonpublic
Information, Officer will notify Parent promptly so that the Company may seek a
protective order or other appropriate remedy or, in the Company's sole
discretion, waive compliance with the terms of this Section, and Officer will
fully cooperate in any attempt by the Company to obtain any such protective
order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained,
or the Company waives compliance with the terms of this Section, Officer will
furnish or disclose only that portion of the Nonpublic Information as is legally
required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance
that confidential treatment will be accorded the Nonpublic Information that is
so disclosed.

     7.  Miscellaneous Provisions.

         (a) Mitigation. Officer shall not be required to mitigate the
amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement by seeking other employment
or otherwise, and the amount of any payment provided for in this Agreement shall
not be reduced by any compensation earned by Officer as the result of employment
by another employer after the date of any Termination of Employment or
otherwise.

         (b) Interest. Until paid, all past due amounts required to be
paid by the Company to Officer under any provision of this Agreement shall bear
interest at the per annum rate equal to the higher of (1) twelve percent (12%),
or (2) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Company's primary bank
lender, plus three percent (3%), both subject to the maximum rate allowed by
law.

         (c) Equitable Relief Available. Officer acknowledges that
remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Company against any actual or
threatened breach of the provisions of Section 6 by Officer. Accordingly,
without prejudice to any other rights or remedies otherwise available to the
Company, Officer agrees that the Company shall have the right to equitable and
injunctive relief to prevent any breach of the provisions of Section 6, as well
as to such damages or other relief as may be available to the Company by reason
of any such breach as does occur.

         (d) At-Will Employment. Officer acknowledges that his
employment with the Company is strictly "at-will", and that nothing contained in
this Agreement shall confer upon Officer the right to continue in the employ of
the Company, or interfere in any way with the rights of the Company to terminate
his employment at any time for any reason. Officer further acknowledges that
this Agreement is not an "employment agreement" or "employment contract"
(written or otherwise), as either term is used or defined in, or contemplated by
or under, (i) the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, (ii) any other plan or
agreement to which the Company is a party, or (iii) applicable statutory, common
or case law.

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -7-


<PAGE>



         (e) Breach Not a Defense. The representations and covenants on
the part of Officer contained in Section 6 shall be construed as ancillary to
and independent of any other provision of this Agreement, and the existence of
any claim or cause of action of Officer against the Company or any officer,
director, stockholder or representative of the Company, whether predicated on
this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement
by the Company of the covenants on the part of Officer contained in Section 6.

         (f) Notices. Any notice or other communication called for by
the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and either delivered personally
or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid and return receipt
requested) and shall be deemed given when received at the following addresses
(or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):

             (1) If to Parent or the Company, 5205 North O'Connor Boulevard,
                 Suite 900, Irving, Texas 75039, Attention: General Counsel.

             (2) If to Officer, the address of Officer set forth below Officer's
                 signature on the signature page of this Agreement.

         (g) Assumption by Successor of Parent. Parent shall require
any successor (whether direct or indirect) to all or substantially all of the
business or assets of Parent (whether by purchase of securities, merger,
consolidation, sale of assets or otherwise), to expressly assume and agree to
perform the obligations to be performed by Parent or the Company under this
Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Parent or the Company
would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.

         (h) Assignment.

             (1) Except pursuant to an assumption by a successor
         described in subsection (g) of this Section, the rights and obligations
         of the Company pursuant to this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole
         or in part, by the Company to any other person or entity without the
         express written consent of Officer.

             (2) The rights and obligations of Officer pursuant to
         this Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by Officer to
         any other person or entity without the express written consent of the
         Board.

         (i) Successors. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall
inure to the benefit of, the Company, Officer and their respective successors,
permitted assigns, personal and legal representatives, executors,
administrators, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees, as applicable.

         (j) Amendments and Waivers. Except as hereinafter provided, no
provision of this Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, and no right
of any party to this Agreement may be waived, unless such amendment,
modification or waiver is agreed to in a written instrument signed by Officer,
Parent and Company. Unless a Change of Control shall have occurred or be pending
or contemplated, Parent and Company may amend, modify, or waive any provision
of, or terminate, this Agreement upon sixty (60) days notice without the consent
of Officer; provided that any such amendment, modification, waiver or
termination shall be made to all severance agreements of the Company covering
all officers of the Company similarly situated to Officer. No waiver by either
party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this
Agreement to be performed by the other party hereto shall be deemed a waiver of
similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or
subsequent time.

         (k) Complete Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes
all prior agreements, if any, among the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof, and the provisions of this Agreement constitute the complete
understanding and agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and no agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or
implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either
party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.

                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials
                                      -8-


<PAGE>




         (l) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT IS BEING MADE AND EXECUTED
IN, AND IS INTENDED TO BE PERFORMED IN, THE STATE OF TEXAS AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED, CONSTRUED, INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SUBSTANTIVE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

         (m) Attorney Fees. All legal fees and other costs incurred by
Officer in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy under or
in connection with this Agreement shall be reimbursed by the Company to Officer,
if such dispute or controversy is resolved in favor of Officer. The Company
shall be responsible for, and shall pay, all legal fees and other costs incurred
by the Company in connection with the resolution of any dispute or controversy
under or in connection with this Agreement, regardless of whether such dispute
or controversy is resolved in favor of the Company or Officer.

         (n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which
together will constitute one and the same agreement.

         (o) Construction. The captions of the Sections, subsections
and paragraphs of this Agreement have been inserted as a matter of convenience
of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the
terms or provisions of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, references in
this Agreement to a "Section," "subsection," "paragraph," "subparagraph" or
"Schedule" shall be considered to be references to the appropriate Section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or Schedule, respectively, of this
Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, all words used in this
Agreement in any gender shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter gender,
all singular words shall include the plural and all plural words shall include
the singular. As used in this Agreement, the term "including" shall mean
"including, but not limited to."

         (p) Validity and Severability. If any term or provision of
this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under the present
or future laws effective during the term of this Agreement, (1) such term or
provision shall be fully severable, (2) this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced as if such term or provision had never comprised a part of this
Agreement and (3) the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal,
invalid or unenforceable term or provision or by its severance from this
Agreement. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term
or provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement, a
term or provision as similar to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable term or
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.

         (q) Execution by Parent and Company. The execution of this
Agreement by Parent and Company shall constitute an acceptance of, and an
agreement to be bound by, the terms and provisions of this Agreement by Company
and each of its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Parent and
Company hereby agree to cause each of its direct and indirect wholly-owned
subsidiaries, now and in the future, to fully comply with all obligations
applicable to the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.




                            (SIGNATURE PAGE ATTACHED)


                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

                                      -9-


<PAGE>


     In witness whereof,  the parties have executed this Agreement  effective as
of the date first written above.

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:    /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                            --------------------------------
                        Name:  Timothy L. Dove
                        Title: President and Chief Operating Officer


                        PIONEER INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                        By:   /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                            ---------------------------------
                        Name:  Timothy L. Dove
                        Title: President



                        PIONEER INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                             /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                        By:----------------------------------
                        Name:  Timothy L. Dove
                        Title: Executive Vice President




                        OFFICER:




                          /s/ Todd A. Dillabough
                         ------------------------------------
                         Todd A. Dillabough

                         Address:


                         ------------------------------------

                         ------------------------------------


                                                                         /s/ TAD
                                                                        --------
                                                                        initials

                                      -10-


<PAGE>



                                   SCHEDULE A

                            GENERAL RELEASE AGREEMENT

NOTICE:  Various  state and federal  laws and  regulations  prohibit  employment
discrimination  based on age,  race,  color,  religion,  sex,  national  origin,
disability,  citizenship,  and  membership or  application  for  membership in a
uniformed  service.  These  laws  are  enforced  through  the  Equal  Employment
Opportunity  Commission,  U.S.  Department of Labor,  Texas  Commission on Human
Rights,  and other federal and state  agencies.  You are advised to discuss this
release  with your  attorney.  In any event,  you should  thoroughly  review and
understand the effect of this document before signing it. Therefore, please take
this General Release Agreement home and carefully  consider it for at least five
days before signing it. In accordance with the requirements of the Older Workers
Benefit Protection Act, if applicable, you are allowed at least 45 days from the
date of your receipt of this document and the accompanying explanatory letter to
consider  the offer made to you and to return an  executed  copy of this form to
the Vice President  Administration.  Additionally,  after you have executed this
form, you have seven days to reconsider and revoke your agreement.

GENERAL RELEASE:  In consideration of my acceptance of the payments and benefits
offered to me under Section 5(d)(2) of the Severance Agreement, I hereby release
and  discharge  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  and its  subsidiaries  and
affiliates (the  "Company"),  and the officers,  directors,  employees,  agents,
successors,  and assigns of such entities  (collectively the "Released Parties")
from any and all claims,  liabilities,  demands,  and causes of action, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent,  which I have or claim against them as a result of
the  termination of my  employment,  including but not limited to claims arising
under  federal,  state,  or local laws  prohibiting  employment  discrimination,
including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, or claims growing out of any
legal  restrictions,  contractual  or  otherwise,  on  the  Company's  right  to
terminate the employment of its  employees,  and I do hereby agree not to file a
lawsuit to assert such claims. I further acknowledge and agree that by accepting
the  Severance  Agreement  benefits,  I have  given  up my  right  to  file  any
complaint,  lawsuit,  or other legal action against any of the Released  Parties
growing out of,  connected with, or relating in any way to the termination of my
employment  with the  Company.  Further in  consideration  of the  payments  and
benefits  offered to me under the Severance  Agreement,  I acknowledge and agree
that the  Released  Parties may recover from me any loss,  including  attorney's
fees and costs of  defending  against  any claim  brought  by me,  that they may
suffer arising out of my breach of this General Release Agreement.

     I understand that this General Release Agreement is final and binding,  and
I  agree  not  to  challenge   its   enforceability.   If  I  do  challenge  the
enforceability of this General Release Agreement, I agree initially to tender to
the Company all money received pursuant to the Severance  Agreement,  and invite
the  Company  to retain  such  money and agree  with me to cancel  this  General
Release  Agreement.  In the event the Company  accepts  this offer,  the Company
shall retain such money and this General Release  Agreement will be void. In the
event the Company  does not accept such offer,  the Company  shall so notify me,
and shall place such money in an  interest-bearing  escrow  account  pending the
resolution of any dispute as to whether this General Release  Agreement shall be
set aside and/or otherwise be rendered unenforceable.

     I acknowledge and agree that the Company has no legal obligation to provide
the payment under Section  5(d)(2)(C) of the Severance  Agreement offered to me,
and my  acceptance  of the  obligations  and  attendant  additional  payment  as
described therein constitutes my agreement to all terms and conditions set forth
in this General Release Agreement,  and are in consideration of the promises and
undertakings  of the Company  pursuant  to the  Severance  Agreement.  I further
acknowledge and agree that for unemployment  compensation purposes, the payments
I receive under the Severance Agreement shall be considered  additional wages in
lieu  of  notice;  and  that,  accordingly,  I  may  be  ineligible  to  receive
unemployment compensation benefits for an equivalent period of time.

     This General Release  Agreement does not have any effect on any claim I may
have against the Released Parties  unrelated to the termination of my employment
or with  respect  to any  rights  or claims  that may arise  after the date this
General Release Agreement is executed.

     I have  carefully  read and fully  understand all of the provisions of this
General Release.  I further  acknowledge that entering into this General Release
Agreement is knowing and voluntary on my part, that I have had a reasonable time
to deliberate regarding its terms, and that I have had the right to consult with
an attorney if I so desired.

     I  acknowledge  that I  initially  executed  a General  Release  Agreement,
containing the same terms and conditions as this General Release Agreement, more
than seven days prior to the date appearing below and placed the General Release
Agreement in the mail  addressed to the Company.  I further  acknowledge  that I
have had at least  seven  days  since the date of  execution  of the  originally
executed  General  Release  Agreement  in  which to  reconsider  and  revoke  my
agreement  to the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this  General  Release
Agreement.

Date signed:
             --------------------        ------------------------------------
                                         Signature of Officer

Date signed:
             --------------------        -----------------------------------
                                         Signature of Officer

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x1028.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 10.28
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.28


                                   SCHEDULE I


A.R. Alameddine
James R. Baroffio
Edison C. Buchanan
Chris J. Cheatwood
Richard P. Dealy
Timothy L. Dove
R. Hartwell Gardner
Thomas C. Halbouty
Darin G. Holderness
James L. Houghton
Jerry P. Jones
Danny L. Kellum
Linda K. Lawson
Andrew D. Lundquist
Larry N. Paulsen
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.
Mark S. Sexton
Scott D. Sheffield
Robert A Solberg
Susan A. Spratlen
Jim A. Watson
Mark L. Withrow



<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x211.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 21.1
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1


                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

    State or
 Jurisdiction
of Organization     Subsidiaries                                   Ownership %
- ---------------     ------------                                   -----------

Delaware            DMLP CO.                                          100.0
Netherlands         D, P & D Investments B.V.                         100.0
Colorado            Long Canyon Gas Company, LLC                       75.4
Colorado            Lorencito Gas Gathering, LLC                       85.0
Delaware            Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.                   100.0
Texas               Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership                 100.0
Delaware            Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.                  100.0
South Africa        Petroleum South Cape (Pty) Ltd.                   100.0
Canada              Pioneer Energy Canada Ltd.                        100.0
Delaware            Pioneer International Resources Company           100.0
Nigeria             Pioneer JDZ Limited                               100.0
Texas               Pioneer Natural Gas Company                       100.0
Delaware            Pioneer Natural Resources Alaska, Inc.            100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd.            100.0
Argentina           Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.        100.0
Canada              Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.             100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Natural Resources Equatorial
                    Guinea Limited                                    100.0
Bahamas             Pioneer Natural Resources Libya Limited           100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Natural Resources Morocco Limited         100.0
Nigeria             Pioneer Natural Resources Nigeria
                    (320) Limited                                     100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Natural Resources Nigeria Ltd.            100.0
Delaware            Pioneer Natural Resources Properties LP           100.0
Texas               Pioneer Natural Resources  Scholarship
                    Foundation                                        100.0
South Africa        Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa
                    (Pty) Limited                                     100.0
Argentina           Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del
                    Fuego) S.A.                                       100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd.            100.0
Delaware            Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.               100.0
Nigeria             Pioneer Nigeria Deepwater Limited                 100.0
Nigeria             Pioneer NR Nigeria (256) Limited                  100.0
Cayman Islands      Pioneer Resources Africa Limited                  100.0
Bahamas             Pioneer Resources Gabon Limited                   100.0
Bahamas             Pioneer Resources Gabon-Olowi Ltd.                100.0
Texas               Pioneer Uravan, Inc.                              100.0
Delaware            Westpan NGL LP                                    100.0
Delaware            Westpan Properties, Inc.                          100.0
Nevada              Westpan Resources Company                         100.0
Delaware            Westpan Resources LP                              100.0


                    Partnerships that
                    Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                    is the managing general partner
                    --------------------------------------------

Texas               Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware            Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware            Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware            Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private
                    Development, L.P.
Texas               Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.




<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x231.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 23.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1



            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in the following  Registration
Statements:

(1) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-88478) of Pioneer Natural Resources
        Company and  Pioneer Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc. and  in the  related
        Prospectus,
(2) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-44439) of Pioneer Natural Resources
        Company and in the related Prospectus,
(3) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-42315) of Pioneer Natural Resources
        Company and  Pioneer Natural Resources  USA,  Inc.  and in  the  related
        Prospectus,
(4) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-39381) of Pioneer Natural Resources
        Company and in the related Prospectus,
(5) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-84442) of Evergreen Resources, Inc.
        and in the related Prospectus,
(6) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-119355 pertaining to the 2000 Stock
        Incentive  Plan  of  Evergreen  Resources,   Inc.,   the  Carbon  Energy
        Corporation 1999  Stock Option Plan, and the  Evergreen Resources,  Inc.
        Initial Stock Option Plan,
(7) Registration Statement  (Form S-8 No. 333-88438)  pertaining to  the Pioneer
        Natural Resources Company Long-Term Incentive Plan,
(8) Registration Statement  (Form S-8 No. 333-39153)  pertaining to the  Pioneer
        Natural Resources Company Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan,
(9) Registration  Statement (Form S-8  No. 333-39249) pertaining  to the Pioneer
        Natural Resources USA, Inc. Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan,
(10) Registration Statement  (Form S-8  No.  333-35085)  pertaining to  the 1996
        Incentive Plan of Mesa, Inc.,
(11) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No.  333-35087)  pertaining to the Pioneer
        Natural Resources Company Long-Term Incentive Plan,
(12) Registration  Statement (Form  S-8 No. 033-44851-99) pertaining to the 1991
        Stock Option Plan of Mesa Inc.,
(13) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-35165) pertaining to the Pioneer
        Natural Resources Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and
(14) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No.  333-35175) pertaining  to the Pioneer
        Natural  Resources  Company  Stock  Options  and  the  Parker &  Parsley
        Petroleum Company Long-Term Incentive Plan;

of our  reports  dated  February  17,  2005,  with  respect to the  consolidated
financial  statements of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company  management's  assessment  of the  effectiveness  of internal
control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial  reporting  of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2004.


                                                               Ernst & Young LLP


Dallas, Texas
February 17, 2005

<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>17
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x232.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 23.2
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.2



            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS


We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements (No.  333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153,  No. 333-39249,  No.
33-44851,  No. 333-35085,  No. 333-35175,  No. 333-88438 and No.  333-119355) on
Form S-8 and (No. 333-88478, No. 333-42315, No. 333-44439, No. 333-39381 and No.
333-84442) on Form S-3 of Pioneer Natural  Resources Company (the "Company") and
the related  Prospectuses  of the reference of Netherland,  Sewell & Associates,
Inc. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2004, of
the  Company  and its  subsidiaries,  filed  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission.



                                    NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.


                                    By:      /s/ Frederic D. Sewell
                                         -------------------------------------
                                         Frederic D. Sewell
                                         Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Dallas, Texas
February 18, 2005



<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>18
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x311.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 31.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 31.1

                      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

     I, Scott D. Sheffield, certify that:

     1.     I have reviewed this  annual report on  Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural
            Resources Company;

     2.     Based on my  knowledge,  this  report does  not  contain any  untrue
            statement  of a  material  fact or  omit to  state a  material  fact
            necessary to  make the  statements made,  in light  of circumstances
            under which such  statements were made,  not misleading with respect
            to the period covered by this report;

     3.     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
            information included in this  report, fairly present in all material
            respects the  financial condition,  results of  operations  and cash
            flows of  the registrant as of,  and for,  the periods  presented in
            this report;

     4.     The registrant's  other certifying officer and I are responsible for
            establishing and maintaining  disclosure controls and procedures (as
            defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)  and 15d-15(e)) and internal
            control over  financial reporting (as defined in  Exchange Act Rules
            13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

            (a)   Designed such  disclosure controls and  procedures, or  caused
                  such disclosure controls  and procedures to  be designed under
                  our supervision,  to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            (b)   Designed such  internal control over  financial reporting,  or
                  caused such internal  control over  financial  reporting to be
                  designed  under  our  supervision,   to   provide   reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

            (c)   Evaluated  the  effectiveness of the  registrant's  disclosure
                  controls  and  procedures  and  presented  in  this report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures, as of the  end of  the period  covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            (d)   Disclosed  in  this  report  any  change  in  the registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter  (the registrant's
                  fourth fiscal  quarter in the case  of an annual report)  that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect,  the  registrant's  internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting; and

     5.     The registrant's  other  certifying  officer and  I have  disclosed,
            based  on  our  most  recent  evaluation of  internal  control  over
            financial  reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors and  the audit
            committee  of  the  registrant's  board  of  directors  (or  persons
            performing the equivalent functions):

            (a)   All significant  deficiencies and  material  weaknesses in the
                  design  or   operation  of  internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting which are  reasonably likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record,  process, summarize and report
                  financial information; and

            (b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management
                  or  other  employees  who  have  a  significant  role  in  the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

February 16, 2005
                               /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                             ------------------------------------------
                             Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and
                             Chief Executive Officer


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>19
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x312.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 31.2
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 31.2

                      CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION

     I, Richard P. Dealy, certify that:

     1.     I have reviewed  this annual report  on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural
            Resources Company;

     2.     Based on  my knowledge,  this  report  does not  contain  any untrue
            statement  of a  material  fact  or omit  to state  a material  fact
            necessary to  make the  statements made,  in light of  circumstances
            under which such  statements were made,  not misleading with respect
            to the period covered by this report;

     3.     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
            information  included in this report, fairly present in all material
            respects the  financial condition,  results of  operations  and cash
            flows of  the registrant as of,  and for,  the periods  presented in
            this report;

     4.     The registrant's  other certifying officer and I are responsible for
            establishing and maintaining  disclosure controls and procedures (as
            defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)  and 15d-15(e)) and internal
            control over financial reporting  (as defined in  Exchange Act Rules
            13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

            (a)   Designed such  disclosure controls  and procedures,  or caused
                  such  disclosure controls  and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision, to ensure  that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared;

            (b)   Designed such  internal control  over financial  reporting, or
                  caused such  internal control  over financial  reporting to be
                  designed  under   our  supervision,  to   provide   reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

            (c)   Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the  registrant's  disclosure
                  controls and  procedures  and  presented  in  this  report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures,  as of the end of  the period covered  by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

            (d)   Disclosed in  this  report  any  change  in  the  registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's  most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth  fiscal quarter  in the case of  an annual report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
                  reporting; and

     5.     The registrant's  other  certifying   officer and  I have disclosed,
            based  on  our  most  recent  evaluation  of  internal  control over
            financial  reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors and  the audit
            committee  of  the  registrant's  board  of  directors  (or  persons
            performing the equivalent functions):

            (a)   All significant  deficiencies and  material  weaknesses in the
                  design  or  operation  of  internal   control  over  financial
                  reporting which  are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process,  summarize and report
                  financial information; and

            (b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management
                  or  other  employees  who  have  a  significant  role  in  the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.

February 16, 2005
                             /s/ Richard P. Dealy
                           --------------------------------------------
                           Richard P. Dealy, Executive Vice President
                           and Chief Financial Officer


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>20
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x321.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 32.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 32.1



                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350


     I, Scott D.  Sheffield,  Chairman  and Chief  Executive  Officer of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company (the "Company"),  hereby certify that the accompanying
report on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,  2004 and filed  with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission on the date hereof pursuant to Section 13(a)
of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (the  "Report")  by the Company  fully
complies with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all  material  aspects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.



                                              /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                            -----------------------------------
                                    Name:   Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman and
                                            Chief Executive Officer
                                    Date:   February 16, 2005



<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>21
<FILENAME>pnr10k04x322.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER FORM 10-K 12/31/2004 EXH. 32.2
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2




                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350


     I, Richard P. Dealy,  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer
of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company (the "Company"),  hereby certify that the
accompanying  report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and filed
with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on the date hereof  pursuant to
Section  13(a) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (the  "Report")  by the
Company fully complies with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all  material  aspects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.




                                             /s/ Richard P. Dealy
                                           -------------------------------------
                                   Name:   Richard P. Dealy, Executive Vice
                                           President and Chief Financial Officer
                                   Date:   February 16, 2005



<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
