-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JTJdvru3WcXMkhXGxf7whD6NcCA2tE55mrHM9n4XJCQkFry6lQIIu6fSt29hb0y3
 LXhlyG/xxEbGF8lFOE6yTA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-04-000005.txt : 20040203
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-04-000005.hdr.sgml : 20040203
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20040203100317
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-04-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20031231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20040203

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		04561103

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>pnr10k04.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K
<TEXT>
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

  / X /        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003
                                       or

  /   /         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the transition period from _______ to ________

                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                       Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Delaware                                    75-2702753
    ------------------------------------                ---------------------
      (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 900, Irving, Texas                 75039
- ------------------------------------------------             --------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
       Title of each class                               on which registered
       -------------------                             -----------------------
       Common Stock.................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check  mark whether  the  Registrant  is an  accelerated  filer  (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
YES    X        NO ___
     ----

Aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant  computed by  reference  to the price at which the common  equity was
last  sold  as of  the  last  business  day of the  Registrant's  most  recently
completed second fiscal quarter ...........................    $  3,053,790,906

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
January 30, 2004...........................................         119,345,550

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)  Proxy  Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 13, 2004
     - Referenced in Part III of this report.



<PAGE>





                                TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                                         Page

Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein...........    4

                                     PART I

Item 1.    Business....................................................    5

           General.....................................................    5
           Available Information.......................................    5
           Mission and Strategies......................................    5
           Business Activities.........................................    6
           Operations by Geographic Area...............................    8
           Marketing of Production.....................................    8
           Competition, Markets and Regulations........................    8
           Risks Associated with Business Activities...................   10

Item 2.    Properties..................................................   13

           Proved Reserves.............................................   13
           Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement........................   14
           Description of Properties...................................   14
           Selected Oil and Gas Information............................   19

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings...........................................   23

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   23

                                     PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
           Stockholder Matters.........................................   23

           Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity
           Compensation Plans..........................................   24

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.....................................   25

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
             Condition and Results of Operations.......................   26

           2003 Highlights.............................................   26
           2003 Financial and Operating Performance....................   26
           2004 Outlook................................................   27
           Critical Accounting Estimates...............................   29
           Results of Operations.......................................   31
           Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity........   37
           New Accounting Development..................................   40



                                        2

<PAGE>



                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                         Page

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
           Market Risk.................................................   40

           Quantitative Disclosures....................................   40
           Qualitative Disclosures.....................................   43

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   43

           Index to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   43
           Independent Auditors' Report................................   44
           Consolidated Financial Statements...........................   45
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   50
           Unaudited Supplementary Information.........................   88

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
           Accounting and Financial Disclosure.........................   94

Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures.....................................   94

                                    PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   94

Item 11.   Executive Compensation......................................   94

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management and Related Stockholder Matters..................   94

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   94

Item 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services......................   94

                                     PART IV

Item 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
           on Form 8-K.................................................   95

           Signatures..................................................  100

           Exhibit Index...............................................  101



                                        3

<PAGE>



     Parts I and II of this annual  report on Form 10-K (the  "Report")  contain
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking   statements.   See  "Item  1.  Business  -  Competition,   Markets  and
Regulations" and "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with Business  Activities"
for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of
Pioneer Natural Resources  Company to achieve the anticipated  results described
in the forward-looking statements.

Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

     Within this Report,  the following oil and gas terms and  conventions  have
specific  meanings:  "Bbl" means a standard  barrel  containing 42 United States
gallons;  "BOE" means a barrel of oil  equivalent  and is a standard  convention
used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis;  "Btu"
means British  thermal unit and is a measure of the amount of energy required to
raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit; "LIBOR" means
London Interbank Offered Rate, which is a market rate of interest; "MMBtu" means
one million Btus; "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls; "MBOE" means one thousand BOE;
"MMBOE"  means one million  BOE;  "Mcf" means one  thousand  cubic feet and is a
measure of natural gas volume;  "MMcf" means one million cubic feet; "Bcf" means
one billion cubic feet;  "NGL" means  natural gas liquid;  "NYMEX" means The New
York Mercantile  Exchange;  "proved  reserves" mean the estimated  quantities of
crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering
data  demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be recoverable in future years
from known reservoirs under existing  economic and operating  conditions,  i.e.,
prices  and  costs  as  of  the  date  the  estimate  is  made.  Prices  include
consideration  of  changes  in  existing  prices  provided  only by  contractual
arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
     (i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported
by  either  actual  production  or  conclusive  formation  test.  The  area of a
reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and
defined by gas-oil and/or  oil-water  contacts,  if any; and (B) the immediately
adjoining  portions  not yet  drilled,  but  which can be  reasonably  judged as
economically  productive on the basis of available  geological  and  engineering
data.  In the  absence  of  information  on fluid  contacts,  the  lowest  known
structural  occurrence  of  hydrocarbons  controls the lower proved limit of the
reservoir.
     (ii) Reserves  which can be produced  economically  through  application of
improved  recovery  techniques  (such as fluid  injection)  are  included in the
"proved"  classification  when  successful  testing by a pilot  project,  or the
operation of an installed  program in the  reservoir,  provides  support for the
engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
     (iii)  Estimates of proved  reserves do not include the following:  (A) oil
that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified  separately as
"indicated  additional  reserves";  (B) crude oil,  natural gas, and natural gas
liquids,  the  recovery  of which is  subject  to  reasonable  doubt  because of
uncertainty as to geology, reservoir  characteristics,  or economic factors; (C)
crude oil,  natural gas,  and natural gas  liquids,  that may occur in undrilled
prospects;  and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be
 recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.

     "Standardized  Measure"  means the  after-tax  present  value of  estimated
future net revenues of proved reserves,  determined in accordance with the rules
and  regulations of the United States  Securities and Exchange  Commission  (the
"SEC"),  using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent
discount rate; "acquisition and finding cost per BOE" means total costs incurred
divided  by the  summation  of proved  reserves  attributable  to  revisions  of
previous  estimates,  purchases of  minerals-in-place  and new  discoveries  and
extensions;   and  "reserve  replacement   percentage"  means,  expressed  as  a
percentage,   the  summation  of  annual  proved  reserves,   on  a  BOE  basis,
attributable to revisions of previous estimates,  purchases of minerals-in-place
and new discoveries and extensions divided by annual production of oil, NGLs and
gas, on a BOE basis.

     Gas equivalents are determined  under the relative energy content method by
using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL.

     With  respect to  information  on the working  interest in wells,  drilling
locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined
by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by Pioneer Natural
Resources Company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres.
Unless otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling  locations and acreage statistics
quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or acres;  and, all
currency amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars.

                                        4


<PAGE>



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

     Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  (the  "Company"  or  "Pioneer")  is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Pioneer is an oil and gas  exploration  and production  company
with ownership interests in oil and gas properties located in the United States,
Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.

     The  Company's  executive  offices are located at 5205 N.  O'Connor  Blvd.,
Suite  900,  Irving,  Texas  75039.  The  Company's  telephone  number  is (972)
444-9001.  The Company maintains other offices in Midland,  Texas; Buenos Aires,
Argentina;   Calgary,  Canada;  Capetown,  South  Africa;  Tunis,  Tunisia;  and
Libreville, Gabon. At December 31, 2003, the Company had 1,014 employees, 505 of
whom were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

     Pioneer files annual,  quarterly and current reports,  proxy statements and
other  documents  with the SEC under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934.  The
public may read and copy any  materials  that Pioneer  files with the SEC at the
SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain  information on the operation of the Public  Reference Room by
calling the SEC at  1-800-SEC-0330.  Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website
that contains reports, proxy and information  statements,  and other information
regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The
public  can  obtain  any   documents   that  Pioneer   files  with  the  SEC  at
http://www.sec.gov.

     The Company also makes  available free of charge on or through its Internet
website  (http://www.pioneernrc.com)  its Annual Report on Form 10-K,  Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments
to those  reports  filed or furnished  pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange
Act as soon  as  reasonably  practicable  after  it  electronically  files  such
material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

     The Company's mission is to provide  shareholders with superior  investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset value. The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are predicated
on  maintaining  financial   flexibility  and  capital  allocation   discipline.
Historically,  these  strategies have been anchored by the Company's  long-lived
Spraberry  oil field and Hugoton and West  Panhandle  gas fields'  reserves  and
production.  Underlying  these  fields  are  approximately  65  percent  of  the
Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2003. These fields have
a remaining  productive  life in excess of 40 years.  The stable base of oil and
gas  production  from these fields,  combined with the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico
Canyon  Express,  Falcon and Harrier gas  projects  which  began  production  in
September  2002,  March 2003 and January 2004,  respectively,  and the Sable oil
discovery in South Africa which began  production  in August 2003 will  generate
the  operating  cash flows that will allow the Company to improve its  financial
flexibility  in 2004.  These  activities  will be  further  enhanced  by initial
production  in mid-2004  from the  Company's  Devils Tower oil discovery and the
Raptor and  Tomahawk  gas  discoveries,  all  located in the  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico.

     The  above  exploration  successes  represent  some of the  results  of the
Company's   decision  to  selectively   reinvest  capital  from  the  long-lived
Spraberry,  Hugoton  and  West  Panhandle  fields  to  areas  offering  superior
investment  returns.  Similarly,  the Company will continue to: (a)  selectively
explore for and develop proved reserve  discoveries in areas that offer superior
reserve  growth and  profitability  potential;  (b)  evaluate  opportunities  to
acquire oil and gas  properties  under terms that will  complement the Company's
exploration and development drilling activities; (c) invest in the personnel and
technology  necessary  to maximize the  Company's  exploration  and  development
successes; and (d) enhance liquidity,  allowing the Company to take advantage of
future exploration,  development and acquisition  opportunities.  The Company is
committed  to  continuing  to enhance  shareholder  investment  returns  through
adherence to these strategies.


                                        5

<PAGE>



Business Activities

     The  Company  is an  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  production
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor qualitative  differentials,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from
units offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive  advantage is
gained in the oil and gas exploration and development  industry through superior
capital  investment  decisions,  technological  innovation  and  price  and cost
management.

     Petroleum  industry.  The  petroleum  industry  has been  characterized  by
fluctuating  oil, NGL and gas commodity  prices and relatively  stable  supplier
costs during the three years ended  December 31, 2003.  During and just prior to
2000, the  Organization of Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  ("OPEC") and certain
other oil exporting  nations reduced their oil export volumes.  Those reductions
in oil export volumes had a positive impact on world oil prices,  as did overall
gas supply and demand  fundamentals  on North American gas prices.  During 2002,
world  oil  prices   increased  in  response  to  political  unrest  and  supply
disruptions  in the Middle East and  Venezuela  while North  American gas prices
improved as market fundamentals  strengthened.  During 2003, world oil and North
American gas supply and demand fundamentals continued to strengthen. Significant
factors that will impact 2004 commodity  prices include the final  resolution of
issues  currently  impacting Iraq and the Middle East in general,  the extent to
which  members of OPEC and other oil  exporting  nations are able to continue to
manage oil supply  through  export quotas and overall North  American gas supply
and demand fundamentals. To mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on
the Company's net asset value,  Pioneer utilizes commodity hedge contracts.  See
Note J of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding the
impact to oil and gas revenues  during the years ended  December 31, 2003,  2002
and 2001 from the Company's  hedging  activities  and the  Company's  open hedge
positions at December 31, 2003.

     The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is anchored by the  Spraberry  oil
field located in West Texas,  the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas
and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas  Panhandle.  Complementing
these areas,  the Company has exploration and development  opportunities  and/or
oil and gas production  activities in the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast
area and in Alaska,  and  internationally  in Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,  South
Africa and Tunisia.  Combined,  these assets create a portfolio of resources and
opportunities  that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas, and that are also
well balanced  between  long-lived,  dependable  production and  exploration and
development  opportunities.  Additionally,  the Company has a team of  dedicated
employees that  represent the  professional  disciplines  and sciences that will
allow  Pioneer to  maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net asset  value
inherent in its physical assets.

     The Company provides  administrative,  financial and management  support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil,  NGL  and gas  reserves.  Production  operations  are  principally  located
domestically  in  Texas,   Kansas,   Louisiana  and  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  and
internationally in Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.

     Production.  The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average
daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development  drilling,  production
enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing
the  controllable  costs associated with the production  activities.  During the
year ended  December  31, 2003,  the  Company's  average  daily oil, NGL and gas
production  increased as a result of (i) a full year of gas production  from the
Company's  Canyon Express gas project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico,  (ii) gas
production since March 2003 from the Company's Falcon gas field in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico,  (iii) increased  production from Argentina  primarily resulting
from the resumption of oil drilling  activities since the third quarter of 2002,
(iv) oil production  since May 2003 from the Company's Adam field in Tunisia and
(v) oil  production  since August 2003 from the Company's  Sable field  offshore
South  Africa.  These  increases  more than offset normal  production  declines.
During 2002, the Company's  average daily oil, NGL and gas production  decreased
primarily due to normal production  declines,  reduced Argentine demand for gas,
the Company's curtailment of Argentine drilling activities during the first half
of 2002 and the December 2001 sale of the Company's  Rycroft/Spirit  River field
in Canada.  During 2001, the Company's average daily oil, NGL and gas production
decreased  primarily as a result of oil and gas property  divestitures that were
supportive of the Company's  debt  reduction  goal.  Production,  price and cost
information with respect to the Company's properties for each of the years ended


                                        6

<PAGE>



December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001 is set forth  under  "Item 2.  Properties  -
Selected Oil and Gas Information - Production, Price and Cost Data".

     Drilling  activities.  The  Company  seeks  to  increase  its  oil  and gas
reserves,  production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling
and  by  conducting  other  production  enhancement  activities,  such  as  well
recompletions.  During the three  years ended  December  31,  2003,  the Company
drilled  1,002 gross  (744.1 net) wells,  86 percent of which were  successfully
completed as productive  wells,  at a total  drilling cost (net to the Company's
interest) of $1.5  billion.  During 2003,  the Company  drilled 383 gross (338.8
net) wells. The Company's current 2004 capital expenditure budget is expected to
range from $550 million to $600 million.  Excluding the 2003  acquisitions,  the
Company's 2004 capital  expenditure  budget is comparable to 2003 costs incurred
for oil and gas  producing  activities.  The Company has  allocated the budgeted
2004 capital  expenditures  as follows:  65 percent to development  drilling and
facility activities and 35 percent to exploration activities.

     The Company  believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow growth. The
Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2003 include  proved  undeveloped
reserves and proved  developed  reserves  that are behind pipe of 188.9  million
Bbls of oil and NGLs and 670.8 Bcf of gas.  Development  of these  reserves will
require  future  capital  expenditures.  The timing of the  development of these
reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's
expected operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company
believes  that its current  portfolio  of  undeveloped  prospects  and  reserves
provides attractive  development and exploration  opportunities for at least the
next three to five years.

     Exploratory  activities.  Since 1998,  the Company has devoted  significant
efforts and  resources  to hiring and  developing a highly  skilled  exploration
staff  as  well  as  acquiring   and   drilling  a  portfolio   of   exploration
opportunities.   The  Company's   commitment  to  exploration  has  resulted  in
significant  discoveries  during  this time  period,  such as the 1998 Sable oil
field  discovery in South Africa;  the 1999 Aconcagua,  2000 Devils Tower,  2001
Falcon and 2003 Harrier,  Tomahawk and Raptor  discoveries in the deepwater Gulf
of Mexico;  the 2001 Olowi permit discovery located in the Southern Gabon basin;
and the 2002 Borj El Khadra  permit  discovery  in the  Ghadames  basin  onshore
Southern Tunisia.  The Company  currently  anticipates that its 2004 exploration
efforts will be approximately 35 percent of total 2004 capital  expenditures and
will be concentrated  domestically in the Gulf of Mexico, and internationally in
Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon and Tunisia.  Exploratory  drilling  involves greater
risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than
development  drilling or enhanced recovery  activities.  See "Item 1. Business -
Risks Associated with Business Activities - Drilling activities" below.

     Acquisition  activities.  The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide exploration/exploitation  opportunities. During the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company expended $151.0 million, $195.5 million and
$170.8  million,  respectively,  of acquisition  capital to purchase  additional
interests  in, and other assets  associated  with,  its  existing  assets and to
acquire new prospects for future exploration activities.  See Note D of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for a description of the Company's acquisitions during 2003,
2002 and 2001.

     The Company  periodically  evaluates and pursues acquisition  opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;   entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal
financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.

     Asset  divestitures.  The Company  regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does
not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have  the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  financial
flexibility through reduced debt levels.


                                        7

<PAGE>



     During the years ended  December 31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  the  Company's
divestitures  consisted of the early  termination of derivative  hedge contracts
and the sales of oil and gas  properties  and other  assets for net  proceeds of
$35.7 million, $118.9 million and $113.5 million,  respectively,  which resulted
in 2003, 2002 and 2001 net divestiture  gains of $1.3 million,  $4.4 million and
$7.7 million,  respectively.  The net cash proceeds from the 2003, 2002 and 2001
asset  dispositions  were  primarily  used  to  fund  additions  to oil  and gas
properties or to reduce the Company's  outstanding  indebtedness.  See Note N of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  specific  information  regarding  the
Company's asset divestitures.

     The  Company  anticipates  that it  will  continue  to  sell  non-strategic
properties  or other  assets  from time to time to  increase  capital  resources
available  for  other  activities,   to  achieve  operating  and  administrative
efficiencies and to improve profitability.

Operations by Geographic Area

     The Company operates in one industry segment.  During the three years ended
December  31,  2003,  the  Company  had oil and gas  producing  and  development
activities in the United  States,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon,  South Africa and
Tunisia, and had exploration activities in the United States, Argentina, Canada,
Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.  See Note R of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
geographic  operating segment  information,  including results of operations and
segment assets.

Marketing of Production

     General. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods
that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas
production are negotiated based on factors normally  considered in the industry,
such as the index or spot  price  for gas or the  posted  price  for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.

     Significant  purchasers.  During  the year ended  December  31,  2003,  the
Company's primary purchasers of oil were ExxonMobil  Corporation  ("ExxonMobil")
and Plains Marketing LP ("Plains"),  the Company's primary purchaser of NGLs was
Enterprise  Products  Operating L.P.  ("Enterprise")  and the Company's  primary
purchasers  of  gas  were  Williams  Energy  Services  ("Williams")  and  Conoco
Phillips.  Approximately  16 percent,  eight  percent  and seven  percent of the
Company's 2003 combined oil, NGL and gas revenues were  attributable to sales to
Williams, Conoco Phillips and Enterprise,  respectively,  and approximately five
percent of combined oil, NGL and gas revenues of 2003 were attributable to sales
to ExxonMobil and Plains. The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one
purchaser  would not have an adverse  effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL
and gas production.

     Hedging  activities.   The  Company  utilizes  commodity  swap  and  collar
contracts  in  order  to (i)  reduce  the  effect  of  price  volatility  on the
commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's  annual
capital  budgeting and expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce  commodity price risk
associated with certain capital projects.  See "Item 7. Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description
of the Company's  hedging  activities,  "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative
Disclosures  About  Market Risk" and Note J of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
information concerning the impact on oil and gas revenues during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 from the Company's commodity hedging activities
and the Company's open commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2003.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

     Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number
of companies and  individuals  engage in the  exploration for and development of
oil and gas  properties,  and there is a high degree of competition  for oil and
gas properties suitable for development or exploration.  Acquisitions of oil and
gas  properties  have been an important  element of the  Company's  growth.  The
Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties  that  complement
its  operations,   provide   exploration  and  development   opportunities   and
potentially  provide  superior return on investment.  The principal  competitive
factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties  include the staff and data
necessary  to  identify,  investigate  and  purchase  such  properties  and  the



                                        8

<PAGE>



financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the
Company's  competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other
resources greater than those of the Company.

     Markets.  The  Company's  ability to produce and market  oil,  NGLs and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these  commodity
prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected,  the prices for any
commodity that the Company  produces will generally  approximate  current market
prices in the geographic region of the production.

     Governmental  regulations.  Enterprises  that  sell  securities  in  public
markets are subject to  regulatory  oversight by agencies  such as the SEC. This
regulatory  oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing
and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  that will  ensure  that
material information  relating to the Company and its consolidated  subsidiaries
is made known to the Company's  management and that the financial statements and
other  financial  information  included in this Report do not contain any untrue
statement of a material  fact,  or omit to state a material  fact,  necessary to
make the statements made in this Report not misleading.

     Oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  are also  subject to
various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign  agencies.
Additionally,  the Company's  operations are subject to state  conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign
governments  generally  impose a  production  or  severance  tax with respect to
production and sale of oil and gas within their  respective  jurisdictions.  The
regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's  cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

     Additional  proposals  and  proceedings  that might  affect the oil and gas
industry  are  considered  from time to time by  Congress,  the  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission,   state  regulatory  bodies,  the  courts  and  foreign
governments.  The Company  cannot  predict when or if any such  proposals  might
become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

     Environmental and health controls.  The Company's operations are subject to
numerous  federal,  state,  local and foreign laws and  regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict air emissions or other  discharges  resulting from the operation of gas
processing plants,  pipeline systems and other facilities that the Company owns.
Although  the Company  believes  that  compliance  with  environmental  laws and
regulations  will not have a material  adverse  effect on its future  results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities
are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

     The Comprehensive Environmental Response,  Compensation,  and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

     The Company generates wastes,  including hazardous wastes, that are subject
to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable
state statutes.  The United States  Environmental Protection  Agency and various


                                        9

<PAGE>



state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
hazardous  wastes may in the  future be  designated  as  hazardous  wastes,  and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

     The Company currently owns or leases,  and has in the past owned or leased,
properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production
of oil and gas  reserves.  Although the Company has used  operating and disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been
taken for disposal. In addition,  some of these properties have been operated by
third parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other
wastes was not under the  Company's  control.  These  properties  and the wastes
disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and analogous state laws. Under
such laws,  the  Company  could be required  to remove or  remediate  previously
disposed  wastes or  property  contamination  or to  perform  remedial  plugging
operations to prevent future contamination.

     Federal  regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans
relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution
Prevention Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions of the federal Water
Pollution  Control  Act of 1972,  commonly  referred  to as the Clean  Water Act
("CWA"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to
oil spills into  navigable  waters.  The OPA subjects  owners of  facilities  to
strict joint and several  liability  for all  containment  and cleanup costs and
certain other damages arising from a spill,  including,  but not limited to, the
costs of  responding  to a release of oil to surface  waters.  The CWA  provides
penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable  quantities and
imposes  substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.  OPA requires
responsible   parties  to   establish   and   maintain   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

     Many  states in which the Company  operates  regulate  naturally  occurring
radioactive  materials ("NORM") and NORM wastes that are generated in connection
with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.  NORM wastes  typically
consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that become  concentrated in
pipe scale and in production  equipment.  Certain state regulations  require the
testing  of pipes  and  production  equipment  for the  presence  of  NORM,  the
licensing of NORM-contaminated  facilities and the careful handling and disposal
of NORM  wastes.  The  regulation  of NORM has minimal  effect on the  Company's
operations  because the Company  generates  only small  quantities of NORM on an
annual basis.

     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not result
in a curtailment of production or processing,  a material  increase in the costs
of production,  development,  exploration  or processing or otherwise  adversely
affect the Company's future results of operations and financial condition.

     The Company employs an environmental director and environmental specialists
charged with monitoring  environmental  and regulatory  compliance.  The Company
performs an environmental  review as part of the due diligence work on potential
acquisitions.  The  Company  is not aware of any  material  environmental  legal
proceedings  pending  against it or any material  environmental  liabilities  to
which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

     The nature of the business activities  conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business activities.

     Commodity  prices.  The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future  rate of growth are highly  dependent  on oil and gas  prices,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the  Company's control.  Oil and gas prices


                                       10

<PAGE>



historically have been very volatile.  A significant downward trend in commodity
prices  would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  revenues,
profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances,  result in a
reduction in the carrying  value of the Company's oil and gas properties and the
recognition  of a deferred tax asset  valuation  allowance or an increase to the
Company's  deferred tax asset valuation  allowances,  depending on the Company's
tax attributes in each country in which it has activities.

     Drilling activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Because of the percentage of the
Company's  capital budget  devoted to higher risk  exploratory  projects,  it is
likely that the Company will continue to experience  exploration and abandonment
expense.

     Unproved  properties.  At December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company  carried
unproved  property  costs of $179.8  million and $219.1  million,  respectively.
Generally accepted  accounting  principles require periodic  evaluation of these
costs on a  project-by-project  basis in  comparison to their  estimated  value.
These  evaluations  will be affected by the results of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of the  leases,  contracts  and permits  appurtenant  to such  projects.  If the
quantity of potential reserves  determined by such evaluations is not sufficient
to fully recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will  recognize
noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable  basis.  The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future net revenues  attainable  from the reserves and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

     Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly  reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

     Operation of natural gas  processing  plants.  As of December 31, 2003, the
Company owned  interests in 11 natural gas  processing  plants and five treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the plants  and all five  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas processing  plants.  Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include
carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation  of a gas processing  plant or facility
could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result
in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source.

     Operating  hazards and  uninsured  losses.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained by comparable  companies in the oil and gas industry,
it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs  associated with
obtaining such insurance.


                                       11

<PAGE>




     Environmental.  The  oil and  gas  business  is  subject  to  environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and
discharges  of toxic  substances  or gases  that  could  expose  the  Company to
substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety
of federal,  state and foreign  laws and  regulations  govern the  environmental
aspects  of the  oil  and  gas  business.  Noncompliance  with  these  laws  and
regulations may subject the Company to penalties,  damages or other liabilities,
and compliance may increase the cost of the Company's operations.  Such laws and
regulations may also affect the costs of  acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business -
Competition,  Markets and Regulation - Environmental  and health controls" above
for additional discussion related to environmental risks.

     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment of production or processing,  a material increase in the
costs  of  production,  development,  exploration  or  processing  or  otherwise
adversely  affect the  Company's  future  operations  and  financial  condition.
Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

     Debt restrictions and  availability.  The Company is a borrower under fixed
term senior notes and a corporate  credit  facility.  The terms of the Company's
borrowings  under the senior notes and the  corporate  credit  facility  specify
scheduled  debt  repayments  and  require  the  Company to comply  with  certain
associated covenants and restrictions.  The Company's ability to comply with the
debt repayment  terms,  associated  covenants and  restrictions is dependent on,
among other  things,  factors  outside the  Company's  direct  control,  such as
commodity  prices,  interest rates and competition for available debt financing.
See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding the
Company's  outstanding  debt as of December  31,  2003 and the terms  associated
therewith.

     Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly  competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets and Regulation" above
for additional discussion regarding competition.

     Government regulation.  The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation" above for additional discussion regarding government regulation.

     International operations. At December 31, 2003, approximately 21 percent of
the  Company's  proved  reserves of oil,  NGLs and gas were located  outside the
United States (16 percent in Argentina,  three percent in Africa and two percent
in Canada).  The success and  profitability of  international  operations may be
adversely affected by risks associated with international activities,  including
economic  and  labor  conditions,  political  instability,  tax laws  (including
host-country export,  excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign
subsidiaries)  and  changes  in the value of the U.S.  dollar  versus  the local
currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated.  To the
extent  that the Company is involved  in  international  activities,  changes in
exchange rates may adversely  affect the Company's  future results of operations
and financial condition.  See Critical Accounting Estimates included in "Item 7.
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  specific
to Argentina's economic and political situation.

     Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist
in estimating  quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues  therefrom.
The  estimates of proved  reserves and related  future net revenues set forth in
this Report are based on various  assumptions,  which may ultimately prove to be
inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be  construed  as  accurate
estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.


                                       12

<PAGE>



ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     The  information  included in this Report about the Company's  oil, NGL and
gas  reserves as of December  31, 2003 was based on reserve  reports  audited by
Netherland,  Sewell & Associates, Inc. for the Company's major properties in the
United States,  Argentina,  Canada and South Africa and reserve reports prepared
by the Company's engineers for all other properties. The reserve audit conducted
by Netherland,  Sewell & Associates, Inc. in aggregate represented 87 percent of
the Company's  estimated proved  quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2003.
The  information  included in this Report about the  Company's  oil, NGL and gas
reserves  as of  December  31,  2002 was based on  reserve  reports  audited  by
Netherland,  Sewell & Associates, Inc. for the Company's major properties in the
United  States,  Canada and South Africa,  reserve  reports  audited by Gaffney,
Cline &  Associates,  Inc. for the Company's  properties  located in the Neuquen
Basin in Argentina and reserve reports  prepared by the Company's  engineers for
all other  properties.  The reserve  audits  conducted by  Netherland,  Sewell &
Associates,   Inc.  and  Gaffney,  Cline  &  Associates,   Inc.,  in  aggregate,
represented 71 percent of the Company's  estimated proved quantities of reserves
as of December 31, 2002. The information in this Report about the Company's oil,
NGL and gas  reserves  as of December  31, 2001 was based on proved  reserves as
determined by the Company's engineers.

     Numerous  uncertainties  exist in estimating  quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report
contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production,  oil and gas prices,  revenues,
taxes,  capital  expenditures,  operating expenses and quantities of recoverable
oil and gas reserves may vary  substantially from those assumed in the estimates
and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related  Standardized
Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition,  the Company's
reserves  may be subject to downward  or upward  revisions  based on  production
performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future exploration and
development  activities,  prevailing  oil  and gas  prices  and  other  factors.
Therefore,  estimates of the Standardized  Measure of proved reserves should not
be construed as accurate  estimates of the current market value of the Company's
assets.

     Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis
for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and regulations of the
SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the date of
computation.  Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or
that will be  received  for oil and gas  production  because of  seasonal  price
fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any
date  are  not   necessarily   indicative  of  future   results  of  operations.
Accordingly,  estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially
different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.

     The Company did not provide  estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves
during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 or 2001 to any federal  authority
or agency, other than the SEC.

Proved Reserves

     The  Company's  proved  reserves  totaled 789.1 million BOE at December 31,
2003,  736.7  million BOE at December 31, 2002 and 671.4 million BOE at December
31,  2001,   representing   $4.6   billion,   $4.1  billion  and  $2.5  billion,
respectively,  of  Standardized  Measure or $6.0 billion,  $5.1 billion and $2.5
billion, respectively, on a pre-tax basis. The seven and 11 percent increases in
proved reserve volumes and Standardized Measure, respectively,  during 2003 were
primarily due to two core area acquisitions, discoveries in Gabon, the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico and Tunisia  and  positive  reserve  revisions  due to  increased
commodity  prices extending the estimated  economic life of various  properties,
increased  recoverable  reserve  estimates  based  on well  performance  and the
addition of reserves resulting from the Company' expanded  development  drilling
program.  The ten  and 65  percent  increases  in  proved  reserve  volumes  and
Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2002 were attributable to an increase
in commodity  prices,  the purchase of incremental  interests in two core assets
and the Company's successful capital investments.

     On a BOE basis,  65 percent  of the  Company's  total  proved  reserves  at
December 31, 2003 were proved developed  reserves.  Based on reserve information
as of December 31, 2003, and using the Company's production  information for the
year then ended, the  reserve-to-production  ratio associated with the Company's
proved  reserves was 14.0 years on a BOE basis.  The  following  table  provides
information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily production
by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003:


                                       13

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                         2003 Average
                              Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2003                 Daily Production (a)
                         -------------------------------------------------     ---------------------------------
                            Oil                               Standardized       Oil
                          & NGLs         Gas                     Measure       & NGLs         Gas
                          (MBbls)       (MMcf)       MBOE     (in thousands)    (Bbls)       (Mcf)        BOE
                         ---------    ---------   ----------   -----------     --------    ---------    --------
<S>                      <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>             <C>         <C>          <C>
United States.........     362,751    1,553,976      621,747   $ 3,797,488       44,863      445,609     119,129
Argentina.............      33,469      549,856      125,112       443,118       10,005       94,128      25,694
Canada................       2,407       93,829       18,045       218,419        1,017       41,669       7,962
Africa................      24,154          -         24,154       124,228        1,981          -         1,981
                         ---------    ---------   ----------     ---------     --------    ---------    --------
Total.................     422,781    2,197,661      789,058   $ 4,583,253       57,866      581,406     154,766
                         =========    =========   ==========    ==========     ========    =========    ========
<FN>
- ----------------
(a)  The 2003 average daily  production was calculated  using a 365-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement

     The  Company's  acquisition  and finding  costs per BOE for the years ended
December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001  were  $6.64,  $6.30  and  $7.49  per BOE,
respectively. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period
ended  December  31,  2003 was  $6.76  per BOE,  representing  an eight  percent
increase over the 2002 three-year average rate of $6.24 per BOE.

     During the year ended December 31, 2003,  the Company  replaced 193 percent
of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (299  percent for oil and NGLs and 129
percent for gas).  During 2002,  the Company  replaced 258 percent of its annual
production  on a BOE basis (384  percent  for oil and NGLs and 144  percent  for
gas).  During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on
a BOE  basis  (169  percent  for oil and  NGLs and 245  percent  for  gas).  The
Company's  2003 and 2002  reserve  replacement  percentages  were the  result of
revisions  of  previous  estimates  including  revisions  related  to changes in
commodity prices, asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions.  The
Company's 2001 reserve  replacement  percentage was primarily  impacted by asset
purchases and new discoveries and field extensions.

Description of Properties

     As of December 31, 2003,  the Company has  production,  development  and/or
exploration  operations in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon, South
Africa and Tunisia.

     Domestic.  The  Company's  domestic  operations  are located in the Permian
Basin, Mid-Continent,  Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United
States.  The Company also has unproved  properties in Alaska.  Approximately  83
percent of the  Company's  domestic  proved  reserves at  December  31, 2003 are
located in the Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. These mature fields
generate substantial  operating cash flow and have a large portfolio of low risk
infill  drilling  opportunities.  The cash flows  generated  from  these  fields
provide funding for the Company's other  development and exploration  activities
both domestically and internationally.  During the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company  expended  $563.0 million in domestic  acquisition,  exploration and
development  drilling  activities.  The Company has budgeted  approximately $427
million for domestic exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2004.

     Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses
eight counties in West Texas. The field is  approximately  150 miles long and 75
miles wide at its widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas  Intermediate
Sweet,  and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of
1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas are produced primarily from three formations,
the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to
9,200 feet.  Recently,  the Company has been adding the  Wolfcamp  formation  at
depths  ranging  from 9,300 feet to 10,300  feet to  selected  completions  with
successful  results.  The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late
1950s and early 1960s by the major oil companies;  however, until the late 1980s
there was very limited development activity in the field.   The Company believes


                                       14

<PAGE>



the area offers excellent  opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because
of the  numerous  undeveloped  infill  drilling  locations,  many of  which  are
reflected  in the  Company's  proved  undeveloped  reserves,  and the ability to
reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2003,  the Company placed 123 Spraberry
wells on production and drilled one developmental dry hole. The Company plans to
drill approximately 114 development wells in the Spraberry field during 2004.

     Hugoton field.  The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest
producing gas fields in the continental  United States. The gas is produced from
the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging  from 2,700 feet to
3,000 feet.  The  Company's  Hugoton  properties  are  located on  approximately
257,000  gross acres  (237,000  net acres),  covering  approximately  400 square
miles.  The Company has working  interests in  approximately  1,200 wells in the
Hugoton field,  about 1,000 of which it operates,  and partial royalty interests
in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns  substantially all of the gathering
and  processing  facilities,  primarily  the  Satanta  plant,  that  service its
production from the Hugoton field.  Such ownership allows the Company to control
the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.

     The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately
90 MMcf  of wet  gas  per day  (i.e.,  gas  production  at the  wellhead  before
processing and before  reduction for royalties),  although actual  production in
the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators.  The Company
estimates that it and other major  producers in the Hugoton field produced at or
near capacity during the year ended December 31, 2003.  During 2003, the Company
placed 18 development  wells on production,  drilled one  developmental dry hole
and had one well in progress as of December 31, 2003 in the Hugoton  field.  The
plans for 2004 include drilling approximately 20 development wells.

     The Company is continuing to evaluate the  feasibility  of infill  drilling
into the Council  Grove  Formation and may submit an  application  to the Kansas
Corporation  Commission  to allow  infill  drilling.  Such infill  drilling  may
increase  production from the Company's Hugoton  properties.  However,  until an
application has been submitted and approved, the Company will not reflect any of
the infill drilling  locations as proved undeveloped  reserves.  There can be no
assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of
such approval if granted.

     West  Panhandle  field.  The West  Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet.  The  Company's  gas in the West  Panhandle  field has an  average  energy
content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is  produced  from  approximately  600 wells on
more than 241,000 acres covering over 375 square miles.  The Company's  wellhead
gas produced  from the West  Panhandle  field  contains a high quantity of NGLs,
yielding  relatively  greater NGL volumes than realized from the Company's 1,025
Btu per Mcf content  wellhead gas in its Hugoton field. The Company controls the
wells,  production equipment,  gathering system and gas processing plant for the
field.

     During  the year  ended  December  31,  2003,  the  Company  placed  71 new
development  wells on  production,  drilled  four  development  wells  that were
plugged and abandoned due to  noncommerciality  and had 24 development wells and
two extension wells in progress at December 31, 2003. The Company plans to drill
approximately 111 wells in the West Panhandle field during 2004.

     Gulf of Mexico  area.  In the Gulf of  Mexico,  the  Company  is focused on
reserve  and  production  growth  through a  portfolio  of shelf  and  deepwater
development projects,  high-impact,  higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling,
shelf  exploration  drilling  and  exploitation  opportunities  inherent  in the
properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this,
the Company has devoted most of its domestic  exploration efforts to the Gulf of
Mexico shelf and  deepwater as well as  investments  in and  utilization  of 3-D
seismic  technology.  During the year  ended  December  31,  2003,  the  Company
successfully drilled three exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and
one  successful  development  well on the shelf.  The Company  also drilled four
exploratory  dry  holes  on the  shelf  and two  exploratory  dry  holes  in the
deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico  during  2003 and had four  exploratory  wells in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one exploratory well on the shelf in progress as of
December 31, 2003.


                                       15

<PAGE>



     In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has three major projects,  two
of which are now on  production  and one that was in progress  at  December  31,
2003:

o    Canyon  Express  -  The  Canyon  Express  development  project  is a  joint
     development of three  deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas  discoveries,  including
     the Company's  TotalFinaElf-operated Aconcagua and Marathon-operated Camden
     Hills fields, where the Company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3 percent working
     interests,  respectively.  The Company participated in the discovery of the
     Aconcagua  gas field in 1999  during  the  early  stages  of  building  its
     exploration  program,  and later added  Camden  Hills to its  portfolio  to
     enhance  its  ownership  in the  project.  The Canyon  Express  project was
     approved  for  development  in June 2000 and reached  first  production  in
     September  2002.  The Canyon Express  gathering  system is the first in the
     area and  provides  the Company and its partners  with the  opportunity  to
     collect  gathering and handling  revenues from the use of the system by any
     future discoveries in the area. The Company has plans to drill and complete
     an additional development well at Aconcagua during 2004.

o    Falcon Area - The  Company-operated  Falcon  two-well  field was  completed
     ahead of schedule and placed on production in March 2003.  During the first
     quarter of 2003, the Company drilled its Harrier discovery,  along with two
     exploratory  dry holes.  The Company also acquired the remaining 25 percent
     working  interest in the Falcon field,  Harrier  discovery and  surrounding
     prospects  that it did not already own in March 2003.  In addition,  during
     the third quarter of 2003,  the Company  successfully  drilled the Tomahawk
     and Raptor prospects. All three discoveries,  Harrier, Tomahawk and Raptor,
     will be  developed  as  single-well  subsea  tie-backs  to the Falcon field
     facilities  which were  designed  to be  expandable.  To  accommodate  this
     incremental  production and potential throughput associated with additional
     planned exploration,  an additional parallel pipeline connecting the Falcon
     field to the Falcon  platform  on the Gulf of Mexico  shelf has been added,
     doubling its  capacity to 400 MMcf of gas per day.  The Company  placed the
     Harrier  field on  production  in  early  January  2004 and  plans to place
     Tomahawk  and  Raptor  on  production  in  mid-2004.  In  addition  to  the
     development  operations  discussed above, the Company has budgeted to drill
     up to three additional Falcon area prospects in 2004.

o    Devils Tower - The  Dominion-operated  Devils Tower development project was
     sanctioned in 2001 as a spar development  project with the owners leasing a
     spar from a third party for the life of the field. The hull of the spar was
     constructed  in Indonesia and was  successfully  transported  to the United
     States  during the first  quarter of 2003 where the topsides  were added in
     the fourth quarter of 2003. The spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and
     up to two subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60 MBbls of oil
     per day and 60 MMcf of gas per day. Eight Devils Tower wells and one subsea
     tie-back  well,  the  Triton  field,  have been  drilled  and are  awaiting
     completion.  In  addition,  the Company has  drilled an  appraisal  well at
     Triton that was successful  subsequent to year end and an exploration  well
     is in progress on its  Goldfinger  prospect.  Devils  Tower  production  is
     expected  to begin in  mid-2004  and will be  phased  in as the  wells  are
     individually  completed  from the  spar.  The  Company  holds a 25  percent
     working interest in each of the above projects.

     During  2002,  the  Company  also  participated  in  the  Marathon-operated
deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico  Ozona  Deep  discovery.  The  Company  is  currently
negotiating  a tie-back  agreement  to an  existing  facility  in the area,  the
economics of which will determine future  activities.  In late 2003, the Company
spudded an exploratory  well on the BP-operated  Juno prospect with a 25 percent
working  interest and an exploratory  well on the  Unocal-operated  Myrtle Beach
prospect with a 10 percent working  interest,  each of which remains in progress
with results  expected to be known in February  2004.  The Company also plans to
spud an exploratory well on the  Dominion-operated  Thunder Hawk prospect during
2004. The Company has a 12.5 percent working interest in Thunder Hawk.

     During January 2003, the Company  announced a joint  exploration  agreement
with Woodside Energy (USA), Inc.  ("Woodside"),  a subsidiary of Woodside Energy
Ltd. of Australia,  for a two-year drilling program over the shallow-water Texas
shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement,  Woodside acquired a 50
percent  working  interest in 47  offshore  exploration  blocks  operated by the
Company.  The  agreement  covers eight  prospects and 19 leads and included five
exploratory  wells to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004. Most of the wells to
be drilled  under the  agreement  will target gas plays below 15,000  feet.  The
first three wells under this joint agreement were unsuccessful. The fourth well,
Midway,  subsequent to December 31, 2003  encountered 30 feet of net gas pay and
is  expected  to be tied back to an  existing  production  platform  with  first
production  anticipated  during the second half of 2004.  Three other  intervals
with an additional 60 feet of gas bearing sands were also  encountered  and will
require  additional  analysis  to determine  future  commercial  potential.  The


                                       16

<PAGE>



Company has a 37.5 percent  working  interest in this well. The fifth well to be
drilled in 2003 and the three  wells  scheduled  for 2004  under the  agreement,
which has been extended for one  additional  year,  were  mutually  agreed to be
deferred  until more  technical  work can be performed on the  prospects by both
companies.  Additionally,  the Company and Woodside are evaluating shallower gas
prospects  on the  Gulf of  Mexico  shelf  for  possible  inclusion  in the 2004
drilling program.

     Onshore Gulf Coast area.  The Company has focused its  drilling  efforts in
this area on the Pawnee  field in the  Edwards  Reef trend in South  Texas.  The
Company  placed five  development  wells and one extension well on production at
Pawnee  during  2003,  had two wells in  progress at year end and plans to drill
approximately ten wells in 2004.

     Alaska area.  During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company  acquired a 70
percent working  interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North
Slope. Associated therewith,  the Company drilled three exploratory wells during
the first quarter of 2003 to test a possible  extension of the productive  sands
in the Kuparuk River field into the shallow waters offshore.  Although all three
of the  wells  found  the  sands  filled  with  oil,  they  were  too thin to be
considered   commercial  on  a  stand-alone  basis.   However,  the  wells  also
encountered  thick sections of oil-bearing  Jurassic-aged  sands,  and the first
well flowed at a sustained rate of approximately 1,300 barrels per day. The test
results are continuing to be evaluated to determine the commercial  viability of
the Jurassic reservoir.  Subsequent to year end, the Company farmed-into a large
acreage  block to the  southwest of the Company's  discovery.  During 2004,  the
Company  plans to evaluate  seismic  data over the area to the  southwest of its
discovery,  analyze  results from other wells  drilled in the area and determine
the location of future exploration wells to further test the discovery.

     In  addition,  the  Company  was the high  bidder on 53 tracts  covering an
additional 159,000 acres on the North Slope in the most recent state lease sale,
establishing a leasehold over a variety of prospects.  The Company has opened an
office in Anchorage and is putting  together a team of employees that will focus
their efforts on enhancing the Company's position in Alaska.

     International.  The Company's  international  operations are located in the
Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina,  the Chinchaga,  Martin Creek and
Lookout Butte areas of Canada,  the Sable oil field offshore South Africa and in
southern   Tunisia.   Additionally,   the  Company  has  other  significant  oil
development and exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore Gabon, gas
exploration  activities  in the shallow  waters  offshore  South  Africa and oil
development  and  exploration  activities  in Tunisia.  As of December 31, 2003,
approximately 16 percent,  two percent and three percent of the Company's proved
reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and Africa, respectively.

     Argentina.  The  Company's  share of Argentine  production  during the year
ended December 31, 2003 averaged 25.7 MBOE per day, or  approximately 17 percent
of the Company's  equivalent  production.  The Company's operated  production in
Argentina is  concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles
southwest  of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes  Mountains.  Oil and gas
are produced  primarily from the Al Norte de la Dorsal, the Al Sur de la Dorsal,
the Dadin, the Loma Negra, the Dos Hermanas,  the Anticlinal  Campamento and the
Estacion  Fernandez  Oro blocks,  in each of which the Company has a 100 percent
working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the
Company's Loma Negra gas processing  plant.  The Company also operates and has a
50 percent  working  interest in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra
del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately
1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.

     Most of the  Company's  non-operated  production in Argentina is located in
Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced  from six separate  fields
in which the Company has a 35 percent working  interest.  The Company also has a
14.4 percent working  interest in the Confluencia  field which is located in the
Neuquen Basin.

     During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $52.1 million
on Argentine development,  exploration and acquisition  activities.  The Company
drilled 31 development  wells and 30  extension/exploratory  wells,  of which 29
development  wells and 21  extension/exploratory  wells  were  successful.  Also
during 2003,  the Company  acquired an  additional  150,000  acres in the Ojo de
Agua, Cutral Co Sur and Collun Cura blocks in the Neuquen Basin and shot seismic
covering  approximately  258,000  acres.  The Company plans to be more active in
Argentina  in 2004 with  approximately  $113  million  budgeted  for oil and gas
development and exploration opportunities.


                                       17

<PAGE>



     Canada. The Company's  Canadian producing  properties are located primarily
in  Alberta  and  British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production  during the year ended
December 31, 2003  averaged 8.0 MBOE per day, or  approximately  five percent of
the  Company's  equivalent  production.  The  Company  continues  to  focus  its
development,  exploration  and  acquisition  activities  in the  core  areas  of
northeast  British  Columbia and  southwest  Alberta.  The  Canadian  assets are
geographically concentrated,  predominantly shallow gas and more than 95 percent
operated by the Company in the  following  areas:  Chinchaga,  Martin  Creek and
Lookout Butte.

     Production  from  the  Chinchaga  area in  northeast  British  Columbia  is
relatively dry gas from  formation  depths  averaging  3,400 feet. In the Martin
Creek area of British  Columbia,  production is relatively  dry gas from various
reservoirs  ranging  from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet.  The  Lookout  Butte area in
southwest  Alberta  produces gas and condensate  from the  Mississippian  Turner
Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet.

     During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $53.0 million
on Canadian exploration,  development,  and acquisition activities.  The Company
drilled 14 development wells and 42  exploratory/extension  wells,  primarily in
the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas,  of which seven  development  wells and 16
exploratory/extension  wells were  successful.  Most of these wells were drilled
during the first quarter of 2003 as these areas are only accessible for drilling
during the winter months.  The Company plans to spend  approximately $31 million
on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2004.

     Africa.  In Africa,  the Company has entered into agreements to explore for
oil and gas in South  Africa,  Gabon and  Tunisia.  The  amended  South  African
agreements  cover over five  million  acres  along the  southern  coast of South
Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers
313,937  acres off the coast of Gabon,  generally  in water depths less than 100
feet. The Tunisian  agreements can be separated into two  categories:  the first
includes three permits covering 2.9 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which
the Company  operates with a 50 percent working interest and the second includes
the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern
Tunisia  in which  the  Company  has a 38.7  percent  working  interest  and the
AGIP-operated  Adam concession and Borj El Khadra permit covering  212,420 acres
and 969,755 acres,  respectively,  onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company
has a 28 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively.  During the year
ended  December 31, 2003,  the Company  expended  $52.9 million of  acquisition,
development and exploration  drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon
and Tunisia.

     South Africa.  In South Africa,  the Company spent $32.8 million of capital
to complete its Petro SA-operated  Sable development  project and to drill three
exploratory  wells that were dry holes.  The Sable oil field began  producing in
August 2003. The Company has a 40% working interest in the Sable field. In 2004,
the Company  currently plans to spend  approximately  $9 million in South Africa
for production  enhancement  opportunities  at Sable and for an exploration well
late in the year.

     Gabon. In Gabon,  the Company spent $4.4 million of development and seismic
capital to further evaluate its Bigorneau South  discovery,  located offshore in
the  Southern  Gabon Basin on its Olowi  permit.  Pioneer is the operator of the
permit with a 100 percent  working  interest.  To date,  the Company has drilled
four successful offshore wells which have established  significant oil in place.
The Company recently received ministerial approval for improved terms associated
with the Olowi  permit.  Subsequent  to year end,  the Company  has  commenced a
multi-well  drilling program to further define the scale of a development  plan,
initially  focusing on the Lower Gamba, and to test a new exploratory  prospect.
The Company is also soliciting bids from possible new partners in the project.

     Tunisia.  In Tunisia,  the  Company  spent  $15.6  million of  acquisition,
drilling and seismic  capital  during the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily
to drill one successful development well in its Adam concession,  one successful
exploratory  well in its  AGIP-operated  Hawa oil field and one exploratory well
that was a dry hole in its  Company-operated  Jorf  permit.  The Hawa oil  field
started  production in January  2004. In addition,  the Company also drilled two
exploratory  wells  on its  Anadarko-operated  Anaguid  permit  that  remain  in
progress as of December 31, 2003. The Company also completed the construction of
a 15 kilometer  flowline from the Adam discovery to an  AGIP-operated  facility,
allowing  production to begin in May 2003. The capital  budget of  approximately
$14 million for Tunisia in 2004  includes an  exploration  well and  development
well in the Adam concession,  two exploration  wells on the Company- operated El
Hamra permit and two appraisal wells on the Anaguid permit.

                                       18

<PAGE>



Selected Oil and Gas Information

     The following  tables set forth  selected oil and gas  information  for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented  below  should  not be  interpreted  as being
indicative of future results.

     Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production,
price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:



                                       19

<PAGE>





                       PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2003                                   2002                                2001
                       ------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------
                       United                                 United                             United
                       States Argentina Canada Africa  Total  States  Argentina Canada   Total   States  Argentina Canada   Total
                       ------ --------- ------ ------ ------- ------- --------- ------- -------- ------- --------- ------- -------
<S>                    <C>    <C>       <C>    <C>    <C>     <C>     <C>               <C>      <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
  Oil (MBbls).......    8,952    3,171      40    723  12,886   8,555    2,914       45   11,514   8,629    3,566      303  12,498
  NGLs (MBbls)......    7,423      481     331    -     8,235   7,487      254      345    8,086   7,232      200      368   7,800
  Gas (MMcf)........  162,647   34,357  15,209    -   212,213  84,811   28,551   17,653  131,015  77,609   31,830   18,426 127,865
  Total (MBOE)......   43,483    9,378   2,906    723  56,490  30,177    7,926    3,333   41,436  28,796    9,071    3,742  41,609
 Average daily production:
  Oil (Bbls)........   24,525    8,687     111  1,981  35,304  23,437    7,984      124   31,545  23,641    9,769      831  34,241
  NGLs (Bbls).......   20,338    1,318     906    -    22,562  20,512      696      946   22,154  19,815      547    1,008  21,370
  Gas (Mcf).........  445,609   94,128  41,669    -   581,406 232,360   78,220   48,365  358,945 212,629   87,204   50,481 350,314
  Total (BOE).......  119,129   25,694   7,962  1,981 154,766  82,677   21,716    9,131  113,524  78,893   24,851   10,253 113,997
Average prices, including hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl).....   $25.25   $25.62  $29.10 $29.52  $25.59  $23.66   $20.63   $22.26   $22.89  $24.34   $23.79   $21.87  $24.12
  NGLs (per Bbl)....   $19.04   $22.85  $24.80 $  -    $19.50  $13.77   $14.56   $16.77   $13.92  $16.88   $19.29   $21.11  $17.14
  Gas (per Mcf).....   $ 4.49   $  .56  $ 3.90 $  -    $ 3.81  $ 3.16   $  .48   $ 2.50   $ 2.49  $ 4.10   $ 1.31   $ 2.86  $ 3.23
  Revenue (per BOE).   $25.24   $11.87  $23.61 $29.52  $22.99  $19.00   $ 9.79   $15.27   $16.94  $22.56   $14.36   $17.94  $20.36
Average prices, excluding hedge results:
  Oil (per Bbl).....   $29.58   $26.31  $29.10 $30.07  $28.80  $23.85   $20.33   $22.26   $22.95  $24.56   $22.40   $21.87  $23.88
  NGLs (per Bbl)....   $19.04   $22.85  $24.80 $  -    $19.50  $13.77   $14.56   $16.77   $13.92  $16.88   $19.29   $21.11  $17.14
  Gas (per Mcf).....   $ 4.93   $  .56  $ 4.26 $  -    $ 4.17  $ 3.02   $  .48   $ 2.40   $ 2.38  $ 3.96   $ 1.31   $ 3.27  $ 3.20
  Revenue (per BOE).   $25.71   $12.10  $25.54 $30.07  $25.07  $18.65   $ 9.68   $14.77   $16.63  $22.26   $13.81   $19.95  $20.21
Average costs (per BOE):
 Production costs:
  Lease operating...   $ 3.10   $ 2.57  $ 4.06 $ 3.87  $ 3.07  $ 3.21   $ 1.61   $ 2.64   $ 2.87  $ 2.76   $ 2.64   $ 3.01  $ 2.76
  Taxes:
    Production......      .76      .20     -      .12     .62     .71      .13      -        .54     .98      .28      -       .74
    Ad valorem......      .51      -       -      -       .40     .75      -        -        .54     .71      -        -       .49
  Field fuel........      .94      -       -      -       .72     .85      -        -        .62    1.27      -        -       .88
  Workover..........      .15      .01     .43    -       .14     .28      .01      .59      .25     .20      .01      .32     .17
                        -----    -----   -----   ----  ------   -----    -----    -----    -----   -----    -----    -----   -----
     Total..........   $ 5.46   $ 2.78  $ 4.49 $ 3.99  $ 4.95  $ 5.80   $ 1.75   $ 3.23   $ 4.82  $ 5.92   $ 2.93   $ 3.33  $ 5.04
 Depletion expense..   $ 6.85   $ 4.96  $ 9.98 $10.69  $ 6.75  $ 4.64   $ 5.00   $ 8.36   $ 5.01  $ 4.46   $ 5.67   $ 7.71  $ 5.02
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       20

<PAGE>


     Productive  wells.  The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001:
                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                Gross Productive Wells           Net Productive Wells
                              --------------------------      -------------------------
                               Oil        Gas      Total        Oil      Gas      Total
                              ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
<S>                           <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>      <C>       <C>
As of December 31, 2003:
   United States...........    3,691     2,012     5,703       2,978    1,907     4,885
   Argentina...............      669       194       863         539      141       680
   Canada..................        4       268       272           4      210       214
   Africa..................        8       -           8           3      -           3
                              ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total................    4,372     2,474     6,846       3,524    2,258     5,782
                              ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
As of December 31, 2002:
   United States...........    3,448     1,952     5,400       2,745    1,855     4,600
   Argentina...............      694       208       902         534      142       676
   Canada..................        1       246       247           1      197       198
   Africa..................        5       -           5           2      -           2
                              ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total................    4,148     2,406     6,554       3,282    2,194     5,476
                              ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
As of December 31, 2001:
   United States...........    3,485     1,931     5,416       2,116    1,613     3,729
   Argentina...............      669       162       831         454      132       586
   Canada..................        4       299       303           3      240       243
                              ------    ------    ------      ------   ------    ------
      Total................    4,158     2,392     6,550       2,573    1,985     4,558
                              ======    ======    ======      ======   ======    ======
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December  31,  2003,  the  Company  owned  interests  in  132  gross  wells
     containing multiple completions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Leasehold  acreage.  The following table sets forth  information  about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2003:

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    Developed Acreage             Undeveloped Acreage
                                --------------------------     --------------------------     Royalty
                                 Gross Acres    Net Acres      Gross Acres     Net Acres      Acreage
                                ------------    ----------     -----------    -----------    ---------
<S>                             <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
As of December 31, 2003:
  United States:
     Onshore.................     1,011,370        869,974         125,095         79,224      229,650
     Offshore................       120,333         58,838         828,311        562,604       10,500
                                 ----------     ----------      ----------     ----------     --------
                                  1,131,703        928,812         953,406        641,828      240,150
  Argentina..................       713,000        319,000       1,154,000      1,094,000          -
  Canada.....................       161,000        123,000         431,000        310,000       15,000
  Africa.....................       222,020         63,318      10,778,415      6,109,136          -
                                 ----------     ----------      ----------     ----------     --------
     Total...................     2,227,723      1,434,130      13,316,821      8,154,964      255,150
                                 ==========     ==========      ==========     ==========     ========
</TABLE>

                                       21

<PAGE>



     Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and
net  productive  and dry wells in which the Company  had an  interest  that were
drilled  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001.  This
information  should not be  considered  indicative  of future  performance,  nor
should it be  assumed  that  there was any  correlation  between  the  number of
productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves  generated  thereby or the
costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.

                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Gross Wells                     Net Wells
                                 --------------------------      --------------------------
                                   Year Ended December 31,         Year Ended December 31,
                                 --------------------------      --------------------------
                                  2003      2002      2001        2003      2002      2001
                                 ------    ------    ------      ------    ------    ------
<S>                              <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>
United States:
  Productive wells:
    Development..............      244       148       228       210.5       83.0    114.6
    Exploratory..............        4         6        20         4.0        2.0     11.0
  Dry holes:
    Development..............        6         4        15         6.0        3.7     14.6
    Exploratory..............        6         3         8         3.6        2.1      5.1
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
                                   260       161       271       224.1       90.8    145.3
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
Argentina:
  Productive wells:
    Development..............       29        13        19        29.0       13.0     17.7
    Exploratory..............       21         9        26        21.0        9.0     25.5
  Dry holes:
    Development..............        2         1         1         2.0        1.0      1.0
    Exploratory..............        9         8        16         9.0        8.0     14.0
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
                                    61        31        62        61.0       31.0     58.2
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
Canada:
  Productive wells:
    Development..............        7        13        24         7.0       10.4     20.3
    Exploratory..............       16         9        12        14.9        9.0     10.2
  Dry holes:
    Development..............        7         4         2         6.5        4.0      2.0
    Exploratory..............       26         3        13        21.1        3.0     11.8
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
                                    56        29        51        49.5       26.4     44.3
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
Africa:
  Productive wells:
    Development..............        1         4       -            .3        1.6      -
    Exploratory..............        1         4         3          .4        3.4      2.4
  Dry holes:
    Development..............      -         -         -           -          -        -
    Exploratory..............        4       -           3         3.5        -        1.9
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
                                     6         8         6         4.2        5.0      4.3
                                 -----     -----     -----       -----     ------   ------
   Total.....................      383       229       390       338.8      153.2    252.1
                                 =====     =====     =====       =====     ======   ======

Success ratio (a)............      84%       90%       85%         85%        86%      80%
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Represents  the ratio of those wells that were  successfully  completed  as
     producing  wells or wells  capable of producing to total wells  drilled and
     evaluated.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       22

<PAGE>



       The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon
which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                               -----------    ---------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>
United States:
  Development.................................      28           27.1
  Exploratory.................................      11            5.8
                                                 -----         ------
                                                    39           32.9
                                                 -----         ------
Argentina:
  Development.................................       3            3.0
  Exploratory.................................      10           10.0
                                                 -----         ------
                                                    13           13.0
                                                 -----         ------
Canada:
  Development.................................       6            5.6
  Exploratory.................................      11           10.1
                                                 -----         ------
                                                    17           15.7
                                                 -----         ------
Africa:
  Development.................................     -              -
  Exploratory.................................       2             .8
                                                 -----         ------
                                                     2             .8
                                                 -----         ------
    Total.....................................      71           62.4
                                                 =====         ======
</TABLE>

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The  Company is party to various  legal  proceedings,  which are  described
under "Legal  actions" in Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  Except for the
specific legal actions  described in Note I of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data", the
Company  believes  that the probable  damages from such other legal actions will
not be in excess of 10 percent of the Company's current assets.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of 2003.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
             MATTERS

     The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and  traded on the New York  Stock
Exchange under the symbol "PXD". The following table sets forth, for the periods
indicated,  the high and low sales prices for the  Company's  common  stock,  as
reported in the New York Stock Exchange  composite  transactions.  The Company's
board of directors  did not declare  dividends  to the holders of the  Company's
common  stock  during  the years  ended  December  31,  2003 or 2002.  See "2004
Outlook" included in "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for discussion related to future dividends.


                                       23

<PAGE>



     The  following  table  sets  forth  quarterly  high and low  prices  of the
Company's common stock for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       High           Low
                                                     --------       --------
<S>                                                  <C>            <C>
Year ended December 31, 2003:
   Fourth quarter................................    $  32.90       $  25.00
   Third quarter.................................    $  26.52       $  22.76
   Second quarter................................    $  28.44       $  22.85
   First quarter.................................    $  27.44       $  23.27

Year ended December 31, 2002:
   Fourth quarter................................    $  27.50       $  21.70
   Third quarter.................................    $  26.23       $  19.50
   Second quarter................................    $  26.05       $  20.00
   First quarter.................................    $  22.30       $  16.10
</TABLE>

     On January 30, 2004, the last reported sales price of the Company's  common
stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange  composite  transactions,  was
$31.92 per share.

     As  of  January  30,  2004,   the  Company's   common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 29,118 holders of record.

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

     The following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  (b)
                                                                                         Number of securities
                                                  (a)                                     remaining available
                                               Number of                                  for future issuance
                                            securities to be                                  under equity
                                               issued upon        Weighted average         compensation plans
                                               exercise of        exercise price of      (excluding securities
                                           outstanding options   outstanding options   reflected in first column)
                                           -------------------   -------------------   --------------------------
<S>                                        <C>                   <C>                   <C>
Equity compensation plans approved by
 security holders (c):
  Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
    Long-Term Incentive Plan.............       4,857,064              $ 19.63               6,305,591
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan.........          -                   $   -                   589,884
  Predecessor plans.......................        417,052              $ 25.95                     -
                                                ---------                                   ----------
                                                5,274,116                                    6,895,475
                                                =========                                   ==========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  There are no  outstanding  warrants  or  equity  rights  awarded  under the
     Company's equity compensation plans.
(b)  The  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  provides  for the issuance of a
     maximum  number of shares of common  stock equal to 10 percent of the total
     number of shares of common  stock  equivalents  outstanding  less the total
     number of shares of common stock  subject to  outstanding  awards under any
     stock-based  plan for the directors,  officers or employees of the Company.
     The number of remaining  securities available for future issuance under the
     Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan is based on the original  authorized
     issuance of 750,000  shares less 160,116  cumulative  shares issued through
     December 31, 2003. See Note G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a
     description of each of the Company's equity compensation plans.
(c)  There are no equity  compensation  plans  that  have not been  approved  by
     security holders.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       24

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following  selected  consolidated  financial data as of and for each of
the five  years  ended  December  31,  2003 for the  Company  should  be read in
conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations"  and "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                   -----------------------------------------------------
                                                     2003       2002       2001       2000        1999
                                                   --------   --------   --------   --------   ---------
                                                                  (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues and other income:
    Oil and gas................................    $1,298.6   $  701.8   $  847.0   $  852.7    $  644.6
    Interest and other (a).....................        12.3       11.2       21.8       25.8        89.7
    Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net..         1.3        4.4        7.7       34.2       (24.2)
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
        Total revenues and other income             1,312.2      717.4      876.5      912.7       710.1
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production.....................       279.5      199.6      209.7      189.3       159.5
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization...       390.8      216.4      222.6      214.9       236.1
    Impairment of properties and facilities....         -          -          -          -          17.9
    Exploration and abandonments...............       132.8       85.9      127.9       87.5        66.0
    General and administrative.................        60.5       48.4       37.0       33.3        40.2
    Reorganization.............................         -          -          -          -           8.5
    Accretion of discount on asset retirement
      obligations..............................         5.0        -          -          -           -
    Interest...................................        91.4       95.8      131.9      162.0       170.3
    Other (b)..................................        21.4       39.5       43.4       79.5        34.7
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
        Total costs and expenses                      981.4      685.6      772.5      766.5       733.2
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
  Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative
    effect of change in accounting principle...       330.8       31.8      104.0      146.2       (23.1)
  Income tax benefit (provision) (c)...........        64.4       (5.1)      (4.0)       6.0          .6
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
  Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change
    in accounting principle....................       395.2       26.7      100.0      152.2       (22.5)
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle, net of tax (d)..................        15.4        -          -          -           -
                                                    -------    -------    -------    -------     -------
  Net income (loss)............................    $  410.6   $   26.7   $  100.0   $  152.2    $  (22.5)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
  Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
    change in accounting principle per share:
      Basic....................................    $   3.37   $    .24   $   1.01   $   1.53    $   (.22)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
      Diluted..................................    $   3.33   $    .23   $   1.00   $   1.53    $   (.22)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
  Net income (loss) per share:
      Basic....................................    $   3.50   $    .24   $   1.01   $   1.53    $   (.22)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
      Diluted..................................    $   3.46   $    .23   $   1.00   $   1.53    $   (.22)
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
  Weighted average shares outstanding:
    Basic......................................       117.2      112.5       98.5       99.4       100.3
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
    Diluted....................................       118.5      114.3       99.7       99.8       100.3
                                                    =======    =======    =======    =======     =======
Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Total assets.................................    $3,951.6   $3,455.1   $3,271.1   $2,954.4    $2,929.5
  Long-term liabilities........................    $1,749.9   $1,796.9   $1,743.7   $1,804.5    $1,914.5
  Total stockholders' equity...................    $1,759.8   $1,374.9   $1,285.4   $  904.9    $  774.6
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  1999 includes $41.8 million of option fees and liquidated damages and $30.2
     million of income associated with an excise tax refund.
(b)  Other  expense for 2003,  2002,  2001 and 2000 include  losses on the early
     extinguishment  of debt of $1.5 million,  $22.3  million,  $3.8 million and
     $12.3  million,  respectively.  Other  expense  for 2000  and 1999  include
     noncash  mark-to-market charges for changes in the fair values of non-hedge
     financial instruments of $58.5 million and $27.0 million, respectively. See
     Note O of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8.
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(c)  The  Company's  income  tax  benefit  for 2003  includes  a $197.7  million
     adjustment to reduce United Sates deferred tax asset valuation  allowances.
     See Note P of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(d)  The Company's  cumulative effect of change in accounting  principle relates
     to the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Notes B and L of Notes to Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary Data".
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       25



<PAGE>




ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2003 Highlights

     Pioneer's  financial and operating  results for the year ended December 31,
2003 included the following highlights:

o    Production  volumes  increased  36  percent  in 2003 as  compared  to 2002,
     principally due to the completion of the Canyon  Express,  Falcon and Sable
     development projects.

o    Oil and gas  revenue  increased  85  percent  in  2003 as a  result  of the
     increased  production  volumes  and  increases  in North  American  gas and
     worldwide oil prices.

o    Pre-tax income increased to $330.8 million from $31.8 million in 2002.

o    Pioneer's  solid progress  towards its strategic  objectives  over the past
     four years and  improving  key  economic  indicators,  together  with other
     relevant factors and associated evaluations, led the Company to reverse its
     allowances  against  United  States  deferred tax assets  during 2003.  The
     reversal  of the  allowances  against  United  States  deferred  tax assets
     resulted in the  recognition  of a deferred  tax benefit of $197.7  million
     during 2003 of which $104.7  million was  reversed in the third  quarter of
     2003 (see Note P of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in
     "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  additional
     information  regarding the reversal of the allowances against the Company's
     United States deferred tax assets).

o    Net cash provided by operating  activities  increased 130 percent to $763.7
     million in 2003 as compared to $332.2 million in 2002.

o    The Company replaced its $575 million  revolving credit facility with a new
     five-year  $700 million  revolving  credit  agreement with terms similar to
     investment grade companies.

o    The  Company  participated  in  exploration  discoveries  in  the  Harrier,
     Tomahawk  and Raptor  fields in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and the Hawa
     field in Tunisia.

o    The Company  completed a strategic  acquisition of the remaining 25 percent
     working  interest that the Company did not already own in the Falcon field,
     Harrier field and surrounding satellite prospects.

o    The Company was the high bidder on 53 tracts covering an additional 159,000
     acres on the Alaskan North Slope.

o    The Company succeeded in obtaining  ministerial approval for improved terms
     associated  with  the Olowi permit in Gabon and booked 16.6 MMBOE of proved
     reserves in Gabon during 2003.

o    The  Company's  successful  capital  investment  programs  resulted  in the
     replacement  of 193 percent and 216 percent of  production  during the one-
     and three-year periods ended December 31, 2003, respectively,  resulting in
     total proved reserves of 789.1 MMBOE at December 31, 2003.

o    The Company  reported  acquisition  and finding  costs per BOE of $6.64 and
     $6.76  during the one- and  three-year  periods  ended  December  31, 2003,
     respectively.

2003 Financial and Operating Performance

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  the  Company
recorded net income of $410.6 million,  $26.7 million and $100.0 million ($3.46,
$.23 and $1.00 per diluted share), respectively. Compared to 2002, the Company's
2003 total revenues and other income increased by $594.8 million, or 83 percent,
including a $596.9 million increase in oil and gas revenues. The increase in oil


                                       26

<PAGE>



and gas revenues was due to increases in production  volumes and increases of 12
percent,  40  percent  and 53  percent  in  average  oil,  NGL and  gas  prices,
respectively, including the effects of commodity price hedges.

     Compared to 2002,  the  Company's  total costs and  expenses  increased  by
$295.8  million,  or 43 percent,  during the year ended  December 31, 2003.  The
increase in total costs and expenses was primarily reflective of a $46.9 million
increase in exploration  and  abandonments  expense,  primarily due to increased
exploration/extension  drilling  in the Gulf of  Mexico,  Argentina,  Canada and
South  Africa,  a  $174.5  million  increase  in  depletion,   depreciation  and
amortization expense, primarily driven by increases in depletion associated with
increased  production  volumes from  higher-cost-basis  Gulf of Mexico and South
Africa properties and an $80.0 million increase in oil and gas production costs,
which primarily resulted from increases in production volumes, the strengthening
of both the  Argentine  peso and  Canadian  dollar  and  commodity  prices  that
impacted  variable  lease  operating  expenses and production  taxes,  partially
offset by an $18.3  million  decrease in other  expense,  primarily due to $22.3
million of losses recognized during 2002 associated with debt extinguished prior
to its stated maturity.

     During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company's net cash provided by
operating  activities increased to $763.7 million, as compared to $332.2 million
during 2002 and $475.6 million during 2001. The increase in net cash provided by
operating  activities during 2003 was primarily due to increases in oil, NGL and
gas production volumes and prices, as discussed above.

     During the year ended  December 31,  2003,  successful  capital  investment
activities  increased the Company's  proved reserves to 789.1 MMBOE,  reflecting
the effects of  strategic  acquisitions  of  properties  in the  Company's  core
operating  areas  and a  successful  drilling  program  which  resulted  in  the
replacement of 193 percent of production at an acquisition  and finding cost per
BOE of $6.64.  During the three  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  Pioneer has
replaced 216 percent of production at an acquisition and finding cost per BOE of
$6.76.  Costs  incurred  for the year ended  December  31, 2003  totaled  $723.0
million,  including $151.0 million of proved and unproved property  acquisitions
and  $572.0  million  of  exploration  and  development   drilling  and  seismic
expenditures.

     See "Results of Operations" and "Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and
Liquidity",  below, for more in- depth  discussions of the Company's oil and gas
producing activities, including discussions pertaining to oil and gas production
volumes,  prices, hedging activities,  costs and expenses,  capital commitments,
capital resources and liquidity.

2004 Outlook

     Commodity prices. World oil prices increased during the year ended December
31, 2003 in response to political  unrest and supply  disruptions  in the Middle
East as well as other supply and demand factors.  North American gas prices also
increased  during  2003 in  response  to  continued  strong  supply  and  demand
fundamentals.  The  Company's  outlook for 2004  commodity  prices is cautiously
optimistic.  Significant  factors that will impact 2004 commodity prices include
developments  in Iraq and  other  Middle  East  countries,  the  extent to which
members of the  Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  and other oil
exporting  nations  are able to manage  oil  supply  through  export  quotas and
variations in key North American gas supply and demand indicators.  Pioneer will
continue to strategically hedge oil and gas price risk to mitigate the impact of
price volatility on its oil, NGL and gas revenues.

     As of December  31,  2003,  the Company had hedged  18,973  barrels per day
of 2004 oil production  under swap contracts with a weighted average fixed price
to be  received of $25.84 per Bbl.  The Company had also hedged  283,962 Mcf per
day of 2004 gas production  under swap  contracts with a weighted  average fixed
price to be  received  of $4.16 per MMBtu.  During  January  2004,  the  Company
increased its 2004 commodity hedge positions by entering into 32,967 Mcf per day
of first  quarter gas swap  contracts  with  average  per MMBtu fixed  prices of
$7.11. Additionally,  at December 31, 2003 the Company had net deferred gains on
terminated  oil hedge  contracts  of $1.0  million  that will be  recognized  as
increases to oil revenue  during 2004 and $42.9 million of net deferred gains on
terminated  gas hedge  contracts  that will be  recognized  as  increases to gas
revenue during 2004. See Note J of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional
information  regarding the Company's  commodity  hedge positions at December 31,
2003. Also see "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market
Risk" for disclosures about the Company's commodity related derivative financial
instruments.

                                       27

<PAGE>




     Capital  expenditures.  During 2004,  the Company's  budget for oil and gas
capital  activities is expected to range from $550 million to $600  million,  of
which  approximately  65 percent has been budgeted for development  drilling and
facility costs and 35 percent for exploration  expenditures.  The Company's 2004
capital budget is allocated  approximately  70 percent to the United States,  19
percent to Argentina and the  remaining 11 percent is budgeted for  expenditures
in Canada, Gabon, Tunisia, South Africa and other foreign areas. Pioneer expects
to drill approximately 400 exploration and development wells during 2004. During
2004 and 2005, the Company expects to expend approximately $219 million and $348
million,  respectively,  of capital for development  drilling and facility costs
related to its proved undeveloped reserves.

     Production  growth.  The Company  expects  that its annual  2004  worldwide
production  will range from 65 MMBOE to 73 MMBOE, or  approximately  178 MBOE to
200 MBOE per day, an increase of 15 percent to 29 percent over 2003 levels.  The
bottom end of the range  includes a full year of  production  from the Company's
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico Falcon and Harrier gas fields,  the Sable oil field in
South Africa and the Hawa field in Tunisia, coupled with increases in production
from  the  Company's  2004  capital  program  and the  inherent  variability  in
production  results.  The Company  expects,  based on quoted futures prices,  to
generate  cash  flow  significantly  in excess of its  capital  program  and has
considered  the potential to invest a portion of the excess cash for  additional
development drilling or core area acquisitions in arriving at the top end of the
2004 production range.

     The outlook for continued  production growth in 2005 is strong  considering
that first  production from several new projects is not expected until well into
2004.  The Company will have its first full year of  production  from the Devils
Tower,  Tomahawk  and Raptor  deepwater  fields  during  2005,  and the  Company
believes it has sufficient development inventory to support production growth in
the United States, Argentina, Canada and Tunisia. As a result, Pioneer currently
expects production in 2005 to match 2004 at a minimum,  with considerable upside
given the potential  investment  of excess cash flow to develop new  exploration
successes and/or acquire additional assets in core areas during 2004 and 2005.

     Longer term,  with several  discoveries  to develop for 2006 and beyond,  a
pipeline  of  exploration  opportunities,  potential  for  continued  core  area
acquisitions,  continuing  strong commodity  prices and significant  excess cash
flow, Pioneer has targeted five-year average compounded annual production growth
of ten percent.

     Costs and  expenses.  The Company  expects that its costs and expenses that
are highly  correlated with  production  volumes,  such as production  costs and
depletion expense, will increase in absolute amounts during 2004.  Additionally,
the Company  expects that  depletion  expense  will  increase on a per BOE basis
during 2004 as compared to 2003 due to new  production  from Harrier,  Tomahawk,
Raptor and Devils Tower  fields in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and  increased
production  from the Sable oil field  offshore  South  Africa.  The per BOE cost
bases of these  fields  are  higher  than that of  Pioneer's  average  producing
property in 2003.  Additionally,  the  average  per BOE lifting  costs of Devils
Tower and Sable  oil field  production  are  expected  to exceed  the  Company's
average  2003  per BOE  lifting  costs.  The  Company  expects  average  per BOE
production  taxes to decline  during 2004 as compared to 2003 as the  production
from the  aforementioned  properties are not burdened by such taxes.  Ad valorem
taxes are highly  correlated with prior year commodity  prices. As a consequence
of  increases  in oil,  NGL and gas prices  during  2003,  ad valorem  taxes are
expected to be higher in 2004, as compared to 2003.  The Company  anticipates an
increase in general and  administrative  expenses  during 2004 due to additional
staffing  and the  amortization  of  restricted  stock that is being  awarded to
officers  and  employees in lieu of stock  options,  which were awarded in prior
years.

     Capital  allocation.  Four years ago, the Company made a commitment to move
its  financial   position  to  investment  grade   standards,   and  significant
improvement has been accomplished  during that period with year-end 2003 debt to
book capitalization reaching 46.9 percent as compared to 69.3 percent at the end
of  1999.  The  Company  has  established  a  targeted  range  for  debt to book
capitalization  of 37  percent  to 43  percent.  Given the  expanding  financial
strength of the Company and  expectations for significant cash flow in excess of
its capital budget, the Company expects to use a portion of its excess cash flow
in  2004  to  further  reduce  long-term  debt by a  minimum  of  $100  million.
Additionally,  the Company' s Board of Directors have approved a plan to begin a
dividend  program  of  $.20  per  common  share,   payable  in  two  semi-annual
installments of $.10 per common share, beginning in 2004.


                                       28

<PAGE>



     During 2004 through  2006,  the Company  anticipates,  based upon  year-end
futures  prices,  that it will have  significant  excess  cash  flow even  after
funding its typical annual capital budgets,  planned dividends and achieving its
leverage targets.  The Company considers it a high priority to utilize a portion
of the excess cash flow to fund the development of new exploration successes and
to selectively  acquire  additional  assets in its core areas.  The Company will
also consider using a portion of the excess cash flow for share repurchases.

     First quarter 2004.  Based on current  estimates,  the Company expects that
its first quarter 2004  production will average 168,000 to 183,000 BOEs per day,
reflecting  the  incremental  production  from Harrier which began  producing in
January,  the variability of oil cargo shipments in Tunisia and South Africa and
the seasonal  decline in gas demand  during  Argentina's  summer  season.  First
quarter production costs are expected to average $5.00 to $5.50 per BOE based on
current  NYMEX  strip  prices  for  oil  and  gas.  Deprecation,  depletion  and
amortization  expense is expected to average $7.75 to $8.25 per BOE as a greater
proportion of the Company's  production is being produced from higher-cost basis
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and South Africa  properties.  Total  exploration  and
abandonment  expense is  expected to be $25  million to $85  million.  The first
quarter range  includes a number of  high-impact  deepwater Gulf of Mexico wells
that are in  progress,  up to five wells  expected  in Gabon to  further  refine
development  plans  and test a new  exploration  target,  increased  exploration
drilling in Argentina  and the winter  drilling  program in Canada.  General and
administrative  expense is expected to be $17 million to $20 million, $2 million
to $3 million of which  relates to  estimated  performance-  based  compensation
costs.  Interest  expense  is  expected  to be $21  million to $23  million  and
accretion  of  discount  on  asset  retirement  obligations  is  expected  to be
approximately  $2  million.   The  Company  recognizes   deferred  income  taxes
reflecting  its tax position in each of its areas of  operation.  However,  cash
income  taxes are  expected  to be only $3  million to $5  million,  principally
related to  Argentine  income taxes and nominal  alternative  minimum tax in the
United States.  Other than in Argentina,  the Company  continues to benefit from
the carryforward of net operating losses and other positive tax attributes.

Critical Accounting Estimates

     The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in
this Report in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted
in the United States  ("GAAP").  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
a comprehensive  discussion of the Company's  significant  accounting  policies.
GAAP  represents a  comprehensive  set of accounting  and  disclosure  rules and
requirements,  the  application  of  which  requires  management  judgments  and
estimates including,  in certain circumstances,  choices between acceptable GAAP
alternatives.   Following  is  a  discussion  of  the  Company's  most  critical
accounting  estimates,  judgments  and  uncertainties  that are  inherent in the
Company's application of GAAP:

     Accounting  for oil and gas producing  activities.  The  accounting for and
disclosure of oil and gas producing activities requires the Company's management
to choose between GAAP  alternatives  and to make judgments  about  estimates of
future uncertainties.

     Successful   efforts  method  of  accounting.   The  Company  utilizes  the
successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing  activities as
opposed to the alternate  acceptable full cost method.  In general,  the Company
believes that, during periods of active  exploration,  net assets and net income
are  more  conservatively  measured  under  the  successful  efforts  method  of
accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method.
The critical  difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and
the full  cost  method  is as  follows:  under the  successful  efforts  method,
exploratory  dry holes and  geological  and  geophysical  exploration  costs are
charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas,  under
the full cost method of accounting,  such costs and expenses are  capitalized as
assets,  pooled  with the costs of  successful  wells and  charged  against  the
earnings of future periods as a component of depletion expense. During the years
ended  December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001,  the Company  recognized  exploration,
abandonment, geological and geophysical expense of $132.8 million, $85.9 million
and $127.9 million, respectively, under the successful efforts method.

     Proved  reserve  estimates.  Estimates  of the  Company's  proved  reserves
included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines.
The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

       o      the quality and quantity of available data;
       o      the interpretation of that data;



                                       29

<PAGE>



       o      the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and
       o      the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

     The  Company's  proved  reserve  information  included in this Report as of
December  31,  2003 and 2002 was based on  evaluations  audited  by  independent
petroleum  engineers with respect to the Company's major properties and prepared
by the Company's  engineers with respect to all other properties.  The Company's
proved reserve  information  included in this Report as of December 31, 2001 was
based on evaluations prepared by the Company's engineers.  Estimates prepared by
other third parties may be higher or lower than those included herein.

     Because  these  estimates  depend  on many  assumptions,  all of which  may
substantially  differ from future  actual  results,  reserve  estimates  will be
different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately  recovered.  In
addition,  results of  drilling,  testing  and  production  after the date of an
estimate may justify material revisions to the estimate.

     It should not be assumed  that the  present  value of future net cash flows
included in this Report as of December  31, 2003 is the current  market value of
the Company's  estimated proved reserves.  In accordance with SEC  requirements,
the  Company  based the  estimated  present  value of future net cash flows from
proved  reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate.  Actual future
prices and costs may be materially  higher or lower than the prices and costs as
of the date of the estimate.

     The Company's  estimates of proved  reserves  materially  impact  depletion
expense.  If the  estimates of proved  reserves  decline,  the rate at which the
Company  records  depletion  expense will increase,  reducing future net income.
Such a decline may result from lower market prices, which may make it uneconomic
to drill for and produce  higher cost fields.  In addition,  a decline in proved
reserve estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's  assessment of its oil
and gas producing properties for impairment.

     Impairment  of proved  oil and gas  properties.  The  Company  reviews  its
long-lived proved properties to be held and used whenever management  determines
that events or  circumstances  indicate that the recorded  carrying value of the
properties  may  not  be  recoverable.  Management  assesses  whether  or not an
impairment  provision  is necessary  based upon its outlook of future  commodity
prices and net cash flows that may be  generated by the  properties.  Proved oil
and gas properties are reviewed for impairment by depletable  pool, which is the
lowest level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated.

     Impairment  of unproved  oil and gas  properties.  Management  periodically
assesses   individually   significant   unproved  oil  and  gas  properties  for
impairment,  on a  project-by-project  basis.  Management's  assessment  of  the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or expiration  of all or a portion of such projects  impact the amount and
timing of impairment provisions.

     Suspended wells.  The Company suspends the costs of exploratory  wells that
discover  hydrocarbons pending a final determination of the commercial potential
of the related oil and gas fields. The ultimate  disposition of these well costs
is  dependent  on the  results  of  future  drilling  activity  and  development
decisions.  If the Company decides not to pursue additional appraisal activities
or  development  of these  fields,  the costs of these  wells will be charged to
exploration and abandonment expense. At December 31, 2003, the Company had $88.6
million of suspended  exploratory  well costs  included in  property,  plant and
equipment.

     Assessments of functional currencies.  Management determines the functional
currencies of the Company's  subsidiaries based on an assessment of the currency
of the economic environment in which a subsidiary primarily realizes and expends
its operating  revenues,  costs and expenses.  The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency of all of the Company's  international  operations  except Canada.  The
assessment of functional  currencies  can have a significant  impact on periodic
results of operations and financial position.

     Argentine   economic  and  currency   measures.   The  accounting  for  and
remeasurement of the Company's  Argentine balance sheets as of December 31, 2003
and 2002 reflect management's assumptions regarding some uncertainties unique to
Argentina's  current  economic  situation.  See Note B of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a description of the assumptions  utilized in the preparation of these
financial  statements.  The Argentine economic and political situation continues



                                       30

<PAGE>



to evolve and the Argentine  government may enact future regulations or policies
that, when finalized and adopted,  may materially impact, among other items, (i)
the realized  prices the Company  receives for the  commodities  it produces and
sells;  (ii) the timing of  repatriations  of excess cash flow to the  Company's
corporate   headquarters  in  the  United  States;  (iii)  the  Company's  asset
valuations; and (iv) peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities.

     Deferred tax asset valuation allowances.  From 1998 until 2003, the Company
maintained  a valuation  allowance  against a portion of its  deferred tax asset
position in the United  States.  SFAS 109 requires that the Company  continually
assess both  positive  and  negative  evidence to  determine  whether it is more
likely  than not that the  deferred  tax assets can be  realized  prior to their
expiration.  In the third  quarter  of 2003 and as of  December  31,  2003,  the
Company concluded that it is more likely than not that it will realize its gross
deferred tax asset position in the United States after giving  consideration  to
relevant facts and circumstances.

     Accordingly,  during the third  quarter of 2003,  the Company  reversed its
remaining valuation allowance in the United States, resulting in the recognition
of a deferred  tax  benefit of $104.7  million.  For 2003 in total,  the Company
reversed $197.7 million of United States valuation allowances resulting in a net
deferred tax benefit for the year.  Further,  the third quarter 2003 reversal of
the  allowance  increased  stockholders'  equity by $32.6 million as the Company
recognized  the tax effects of previous  stock  option  exercises  and  deferred
hedging gains and losses in other  comprehensive  income. See Note P of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the Company's United
States  deferred tax assets and a specific  discussion of the relevant facts and
circumstances that were assessed.

     Pioneer will continue to monitor Company-specific, oil and gas industry and
worldwide  economic  factors and will reassess the likelihood that the Company's
net  operating  loss  carryforwards  and other  deferred tax  attributes in each
jurisdiction  will be  utilized  prior  to  their  expiration.  There  can be no
assurances that facts and  circumstances  will not materially change and require
the  Company  to  reestablish  a United  States  deferred  tax  asset  valuation
allowance in a future  period.  As of December  31,  2003,  the Company does not
believe  there  is  sufficient   positive  evidence  to  reverse  its  valuation
allowances related to foreign tax jurisdictions.

     Litigation and environmental contingencies. The Company makes judgments and
estimates in recording  liabilities  for ongoing  litigation  and  environmental
remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons.
The  costs to  settle  litigation  can vary from  estimates  based on  differing
interpretations  of laws and opinions and  assessments on the amount of damages.
Similarly,  environmental  remediation liabilities are subject to change because
of changes in laws, regulations, additional information obtained relating to the
extent and nature of site  contamination  and improvements in technology.  Under
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  in the United  States  ("GAAP"),  a
liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if the Company determines
the loss to be both probable and  reasonably  estimated.  See Note I of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary   Data"  for  additional   information   regarding  the  Company's
commitments and contingencies.

Results of Operations

     Oil and gas  revenues.  Revenues from oil and gas  operations  totaled $1.3
billion  during  2003,  as  compared  to $701.8  million  during 2002 and $847.0
million during 2001,  representing an 85 percent increase from 2002 to 2003. The
revenue  increase  from  2002 to 2003 was due to a 36  percent  increase  in BOE
production,  a 12 percent  increase in oil prices,  a 40 percent increase in NGL
prices  and a 53  percent  increase  in gas  prices,  including  the  effects of
commodity price hedges. The increased production is principally  attributable to
incremental  gas production from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Canyon Express and
Falcon field  projects,  initial oil  production in South Africa and Tunisia and
increased  oil and gas  production  in  Argentina,  offset by normal  production
declines.  The  revenue  decrease  from  2001 to  2002  was  principally  due to
year-on-year  worldwide average oil, NGL and gas price declines of five percent,
19 percent  and 23 percent,  respectively,  including  the effects of  commodity
price  hedges,  and an  eight  percent  decline  in  worldwide  oil  production,
partially  offset by worldwide NGL and gas production  increases of four percent
and two percent, respectively.



                                       31

<PAGE>


     The  following  table  provides  production  volumes and  average  reported
prices,  including the results of hedging activities,  by geographic area and in
total, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year ended December 31,
                                                            -------------------------------------
                                                              2003          2002           2001
                                                            --------      --------       --------
<S>                                                         <C>           <C>            <C>
   Average daily production:
     Oil (Bbls)
       United States...................................       24,525        23,437         23,641
       Argentina.......................................        8,687         7,984          9,769
       Canada..........................................          111           124            831
       Africa..........................................        1,981           -              -
                                                            --------      --------       --------
       Worldwide.......................................       35,304        31,545         34,241
     NGLs (Bbls)
       United States...................................       20,338        20,512         19,815
       Argentina.......................................        1,318           696            547
       Canada..........................................          906           946          1,008
                                                            --------      --------       --------
       Worldwide.......................................       22,562        22,154         21,370
     Gas (Mcf)
       United States...................................      445,609       232,360        212,629
       Argentina.......................................       94,128        78,220         87,204
       Canada..........................................       41,669        48,365         50,481
                                                            --------      --------       --------
       Worldwide.......................................      581,406       358,945        350,314
     Total (BOE)
       United States...................................      119,129        82,677         78,893
       Argentina.......................................       25,694        21,716         24,851
       Canada..........................................        7,962         9,131         10,253
       Africa..........................................        1,981           -              -
                                                            --------      --------       --------
       Worldwide.......................................      154,766       113,524        113,997
   Average reported prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States...................................     $  25.25      $  23.66       $  24.34
       Argentina.......................................     $  25.62      $  20.63       $  23.79
       Canada..........................................     $  29.10      $  22.26       $  21.87
       Africa..........................................     $  29.52      $    -         $    -
       Worldwide.......................................     $  25.59      $  22.89       $  24.12
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States...................................     $  19.04      $  13.77       $  16.88
       Argentina.......................................     $  22.85      $  14.56       $  19.29
       Canada..........................................     $  24.80      $  16.77       $  21.11
       Worldwide.......................................     $  19.50      $  13.92       $  17.14
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States...................................     $   4.49      $   3.16       $   4.10
       Argentina.......................................     $    .56      $    .48       $   1.31
       Canada..........................................     $   3.90      $   2.50       $   2.86
       Worldwide.......................................     $   3.81      $   2.49       $   3.23
     Annual percentage increase (decrease) in average
      worldwide reported prices:
       Oil.............................................           12            (5)           -
       NGL.............................................           40           (19)           (15)
       Gas.............................................           53           (23)            15
</TABLE>

     Hedging  activities.  The oil and gas prices that the  Company  reports are
based on the market price received for the  commodities  adjusted by the results
of the Company's cash flow hedging  activities.  The Company utilizes  commodity
swap and collar  contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility
on the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's
annual capital  budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price
risk associated with certain capital projects. The effective portions of changes
in the fair  values of the  Company's  commodity  price  hedges are  deferred as
increases or  decreases to  stockholders'  equity  until the  underlying  hedged
transaction occurs. Consequently, changes in the effective portions of commodity
price hedges add volatility to the Company's reported stockholders' equity until

                                       32

<PAGE>



the  hedge  derivative  matures  or  is  terminated.  See  Note  J of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data"  for  information  concerning  the  impact  to oil  and gas
revenues  during  the years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001 from the
Company's hedging activities, the Company's open hedge positions at December 31,
2003  and   descriptions  of  the  Company's   hedge  and  non-hedge   commodity
derivatives.  Also see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market Risk" for additional  disclosure  about the Company's  commodity  related
derivative financial instruments.

     Interest and other income.  The Company recorded  interest and other income
totaling $12.3 million,  $11.2 million and $21.8 during the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively.  The Company's interest and other income
was  comprised  of revenue  that was not  directly  attributable  to oil and gas
producing activities or oil and gas property  divestitures.  See Note M of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for additional  information regarding interest and other
income.

     Gain on  disposition  of assets.  During the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001,  the Company  completed  asset  divestitures  for net proceeds of
$35.7  million,  $118.9  million and $113.5  million,  respectively.  Associated
therewith,  the Company recorded gains on disposition of assets of $1.3 million,
$4.4 million and $7.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

     The net cash  proceeds  from  asset  divestitures  during  the years  ended
December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001  were  used,  together  with net cash  flows
provided by operating  activities,  to fund  additions to oil and gas properties
and to  reduce  outstanding  indebtedness.  See Note N of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

     Oil and gas production  costs.  The Company  recorded  production  costs of
$279.5  million,  $199.6  million  and $209.7  million  during  the years  ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in total production
costs during 2003 as compared to 2002 is primarily  attributable to the increase
in production volumes,  while the decrease in total production costs during 2002
as compared to 2001 is  principally  attributable  to lower  production  tax and
field fuel expenses due to lower commodity prices.

     Total production costs per BOE increased during the year ended December 31,
2003 by three percent and decreased  during the year ended  December 31, 2002 by
four  percent.  In general,  lease  operating  expenses  and  workover  expenses
represent the components of oil and gas production  costs over which the Company
has management control,  while production taxes, ad valorem taxes and field fuel
expenses  are  directly  related to  commodity  price  changes.  The increase in
production  costs per BOE during 2003 was  primarily due to increases in per BOE
lease operating  expenses,  field fuel expenses and production taxes,  partially
offset by  decreases  in per BOE ad valorem  taxes and  workover  expenses.  The
increase in per BOE lease  operating  expenses was due to the  strengthening  of
both the Argentine peso and the Canadian dollar,  Argentine inflation and higher
average  lifting costs  incurred on South  African  Sable oil field  production,
while  the  increases  in per BOE  field  fuel  expenses  and  production  taxes
primarily  resulted  from  increases in North  American gas prices and world oil
prices.  The  decrease  in per BOE ad  valorem  taxes  is  primarily  due to the
incremental  production  from the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina,  South
Africa and Tunisia fields which are not subject to ad valorem taxes.

     The decrease in production costs during 2002 was primarily due to decreases
in field fuel expense and  production  taxes as a result of lower North American
average gas prices and lower Argentine lease operating  expenses  resulting from
lower  Argentine  expenses  on  a  U.S.  dollar  equivalent  basis  due  to  the
devaluation of the Argentine peso versus the U.S.  dollar,  partially  offset by
moderately higher workover expenses,  ad valorem taxes (which are computed using
prior year average annual commodity  prices) and declines in the third party gas
processing and treating margin component of lease operating expense.


                                       33

<PAGE>


       The following tables provide the components of the Company's total
production costs per BOE and total production costs per BOE by geographic area
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                    2003       2002       2001
                                                  -------    -------    -------

<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
     Lease operating expenses.................    $  3.07    $  2.87    $  2.76
     Taxes:
       Production.............................        .62        .54        .74
       Ad valorem ............................        .40        .54        .49
     Field fuel expenses......................        .72        .62        .88
     Workover expenses........................        .14        .25        .17
                                                   ------     ------     ------
           Total production costs.............    $  4.95    $  4.82    $  5.04
                                                   ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                    2003       2002       2001
                                                  -------    -------    -------
<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
     Total production costs:
       United States..........................    $  5.46    $  5.80    $  5.92
       Argentina..............................    $  2.78    $  1.75    $  2.93
       Canada.................................    $  4.49    $  3.23    $  3.33
       Africa.................................    $  3.99    $   -      $   -
       Worldwide..............................    $  4.95    $  4.82    $  5.04
</TABLE>

     Depletion,  depreciation  and  amortization  expense.  The Company's  total
depletion,  depreciation and amortization  expense per BOE was $6.92,  $5.22 and
$5.35  for the years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  respectively.
Depletion  expense,  the  largest  component  of  depletion,   depreciation  and
amortization, was $6.75, $5.01 and $5.02 per BOE during the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively,  and  depreciation  and  amortization of
other property and equipment was $.17,  $.21 and $.33 per BOE during each of the
respective years. During 2003, the increase in per BOE depletion expense was due
to increases in higher  cost-basis  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and South  African
production volumes and downward revisions to proved reserves in Canada.

     The following table provides  depletion  expense per BOE by geographic area
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                    2003       2002       2001
                                                  -------    -------    -------
<S>                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
     Depletion expense:
       United States..........................    $  6.85    $  4.64    $  4.46
       Argentina..............................    $  4.96    $  5.00    $  5.67
       Canada.................................    $  9.98    $  8.36    $  7.71
       Africa.................................    $ 10.69    $   -      $   -
       Worldwide..............................    $  6.75    $  5.01    $  5.02
</TABLE>

                                       34

<PAGE>



     Exploration,  abandonments,  geological and geophysical costs. Exploration,
abandonments,  geological and geophysical  costs totaled $132.8  million,  $85.9
million and $127.9 million  during the years ended  December 31, 2003,  2002 and
2001,  respectively.  The  following  table  sets  forth the  components  of the
Company's  exploration,   abandonments,  geological  and  geophysical  costs  by
geographic region for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Africa
                                                United                                 and
                                                States     Argentina     Canada       Other        Total
                                               --------    ---------    --------    ---------    --------
                                                                                (in thousands)
<S>                                            <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
   Geological and geophysical costs........    $ 40,783     $  7,689    $  4,426    $  3,903     $ 56,801
   Exploratory dry holes...................      27,015        2,672      10,963      20,250       60,900
   Leasehold abandonments and other........       4,934        7,715       2,302         108       15,059
                                                -------      -------     -------     -------      -------
                                               $ 72,732     $ 18,076    $ 17,691    $ 24,261     $132,760
                                                =======      =======     =======     =======      =======
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
   Geological and geophysical costs........    $ 22,761     $  4,138    $  3,544    $  7,223     $ 37,666
   Exploratory dry holes...................      32,557        3,294       1,220        (539)      36,532
   Leasehold abandonments and other........       7,637        2,874       1,077         108       11,696
                                                -------      -------     -------     -------      -------
                                               $ 62,955     $ 10,306    $  5,841    $  6,792     $ 85,894
                                                =======      =======     =======     =======      =======
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
   Geological and geophysical costs........    $ 29,620     $  6,541    $  2,373    $ 13,678     $ 52,212
   Exploratory dry holes...................      34,883        6,040       5,473      10,432       56,828
   Leasehold abandonments and other........       5,546       11,276       2,036           8       18,866
                                                -------      -------     -------     -------      -------
                                               $ 70,049     $ 23,857    $  9,882    $ 24,118     $127,906
                                                =======      =======     =======     =======      =======
</TABLE>

     The increase in 2003 exploration,  abandonments, geological and geophysical
expense,  as compared to 2002,  was  primarily due to increased  geological  and
geophysical  expenditures  supportive of  exploration  activities in the Gulf of
Mexico and Alaska and a $24.4 million  increase in exploratory dry hole expense.
The increase in exploratory dry hole expense during 2003 was primarily due to an
increase in Canadian  exploratory  drilling  activities  and three  unsuccessful
wells drilled in South Africa and one unsuccessful well drilled in Tunisia.

     The decrease in 2002 exploration,  abandonments, geological and geophysical
expense reflected a decline in Argentine  exploration  activities as the Company
monitored  and assessed  the  economic  environment  and risks  associated  with
Argentina;  a decline in exploratory  dry holes and  geological and  geophysical
expense in Africa,  as the Company  assessed its exploratory  successes in Gabon
and Tunisia;  and the  allocation of a larger  percentage of the Company's  2002
capital budget to the development of its significant  discoveries in the Gulf of
Mexico and offshore South Africa.

     Approximately  38 percent of the Company's  2003 costs incurred for oil and
gas producing  activities  were  exploration  costs as compared to 20 percent in
2002 and 34 percent in 2001.

     General   and   administrative   expenses.   The   Company's   general  and
administrative  expenses  totaled $60.5 million  ($1.07 per BOE),  $48.4 million
($1.17 per BOE) and $37.0 million ($.89 per BOE) during the years ended December
31,   2003,   2002  and  2001,   respectively.   The  increase  in  general  and
administrative  expense  during 2003, as compared to 2002,  was primarily due to
increases in administrative  staff and  performance-related  compensation costs,
including the  amortization of restricted  stock awarded to officers,  directors
and key employees during 2003 and 2002.

     The increase in  administrative  expense during the year ended December 31,
2002 as compared  to 2001 was  primarily  due to the  elimination  of  operating
overhead  being  charged by the Company to the 42 affiliated  partnerships  that
were merged into a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company during  December 2001
and amortization of restricted stock awarded in 2002.

     See Notes D and G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  regarding
the affiliated  partnership  mergers and the restricted stock awards in 2003 and
2002 and their vesting periods, respectively.



                                       35

<PAGE>




     Accretion  of discount  on asset  retirement  obligations.  During the year
ended  December  31, 2003 the Company  recorded  accretion  of discount on asset
retirement obligations of $5.0 million. The provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement  Obligations"
("SFAS  143")  require  that the  accretion  of  discount  on  asset  retirement
obligations be classified in the consolidated  statement of operations  separate
from interest  expense.  Prior to 2003 and the adoption of SFAS 143, the Company
classified accretion of discount on asset retirement  obligations as a component
of interest  expense.  The Company's  interest  expense during each of the years
ended  December 31, 2002 and 2001 included $2.6 million of accretion of discount
on asset  retirement  obligations  that was calculated  prior to the adoption of
SFAS 143 based on asset retirement  obligations  recorded in purchased  business
combinations.  See "Cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle" below
and Notes B and L of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information
regarding the Company's adoption of SFAS 143.

     Interest  expense.  Interest  expense was $91.4 million,  $95.8 million and
$132.0  million  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,
respectively,  while  the  weighted  average  interest  rate  on  the  Company's
indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2003 was 5.3 percent as compared to
5.7 percent and 7.5  percent  for the years  ended  December  31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively,  taking  into  account  the effect of  interest  rate  swaps.  The
decrease in interest  expense for 2003 as compared to 2002 was  primarily due to
$4.8 million of interest  savings  associated  with the July 2002 repayment of a
$45.2 million West Panhandle gas field capital  obligation  (the "West Panhandle
Capital  Obligation") which bore interest at an annual rate of 20 percent;  $4.1
million of incremental savings from the Company's interest rate hedging program;
a $2.6 million  decrease in accretion  expense  (see  "Accretion  of discount on
asset retirement  obligations",  above);  and lower  underlying  market interest
rates and  outstanding  debt.  Partially  offsetting  the  decreases in interest
expense  was a $6.8  million  decrease in  interest  capitalized  during 2003 as
compared to 2002 due to the  completion  of the Canyon  Express and Falcon field
development projects.

     The decline in 2002 interest expense as compared to 2001, was primarily due
to  incremental  interest  savings of $18.0 million from the Company's  interest
rate hedging program; a $6.3 million increase in interest capitalized;  interest
savings from the  retirement of the  Company's  outstanding  11-5/8  percent and
10-5/8  percent  senior  subordinated  notes during the third quarter of 2001and
$38.7  million of the  Company's  9-5/8  percent  senior notes during the fourth
quarter of 2001;  interest savings from the repurchase of $47.1 million of 9-5/8
percent  senior  notes and $13.9  million of 8-7/8  percent  senior notes during
2002;  interest savings from the repayment of West Panhandle Capital Obligation;
and interest savings from reductions in underlying market interest rates.

     See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information about
the Company's long-term debt and interest expense.

     Other  expenses.  Other  expenses were $21.3 million  during the year ended
December 31, 2003,  as compared to $39.6  million  during 2002 and $43.3 million
during 2001. See Note O of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included
in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a detail of the
components included in other expenses.

     Income tax  provisions  (benefits).  The Company  recognized a consolidated
income tax benefit of $64.4 million  during the year ended December 31, 2003 and
consolidated  income tax  provisions of $5.1 million and $4.0 million during the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company's consolidated
tax benefit in 2003 was comprised of a $.1 million current United States federal
tax provision,  an $11.1 million  current  foreign  income tax provision,  $76.3
million of deferred United States federal and state tax benefits and $.7 million
of deferred foreign tax provisions.  The 2003 deferred United States federal and
state tax  benefits  include a $197.7  million  benefit from the reversal of the
Company's  valuation  allowances  against United States deferred tax assets,  of
which $104.7  million was reversed in the third  quarter of 2003. As a result of
the reversal of the valuation  allowances  against the  Company's  United States
deferred tax assets,  the effective tax rate on the Company's future earnings in
the United States will approximate statutory rates.


                                       36

<PAGE>



     The Company's  consolidated tax provision for 2002 was comprised of current
United  States state and local taxes of $.2 million,  current  foreign  taxes of
$2.1 million and deferred foreign tax provisions of $2.8 million.  The Company's
consolidated  tax  provision  for 2001 was  comprised of current U.S.  state and
local taxes of $1.1 million, current foreign taxes of $10.5 million and deferred
foreign tax benefits of $7.6 million.

     See  "Critical  Accounting   Estimates"  above  and  Note  P  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the  Company's tax
position.

     Cumulative  effect  of  change  in  accounting  principle.   As  previously
discussed, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2003 and
recognized  a $15.4  million  benefit  from the  cumulative  effect of change in
accounting  principle,  net of $1.3  million of  associated  Argentine  deferred
income taxes during the year ended December 31, 2003.

     On January 1, 2003, the Company also adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44
and 64,  Amendment of FASB  Statement No. 13 and Technical  Corrections"  ("SFAS
145"), the provisions of which did not result in a cumulative effect adjustment.
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 145, the Company reclassified to other
expense  extraordinary  losses  from the early  extinguishment  of debt of $22.3
million and $3.8 million  realized  during the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

     See Note B of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information
regarding the Company's adoption of SFAS 143 and SFAS 145.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

     Capital  commitments.   The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are  for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of contractual obligations and working capital funding. Funding for exploration,
development  and  acquisitions  of oil  and  gas  properties  and  repayment  of
contractual    obligations    may   be   provided   by   any    combination   of
internally-generated  cash flow,  proceeds from the disposition of non-strategic
assets or  alternative  financing  sources as discussed  in "Capital  resources"
below.  Funding for the Company's  working  capital  obligations  is provided by
internally-generated cash flows.

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company's cash  expenditures  for additions to
oil and gas properties  during the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001
totaled $688.1  million,  $614.7 million and $529.7 million,  respectively.  The
Company's  2003  expenditures  for  additions  to oil  and gas  properties  were
internally   funded  by  $763.7  million  of  net  cash  provided  by  operating
activities.  The  Company's  2002  expenditures  for  additions  to oil  and gas
properties  were  funded by $332.2  million of net cash  provided  by  operating
activities,  $118.9  million of proceeds  from the  disposition  of assets and a
portion  of the  proceeds  from  the  issuance  of 11.5  million  shares  of the
Company's common stock during April 2002. The Company's 2001  expenditures  were
internally funded by $475.6 million of net cash provided by operating activities
and a portion of the Company's  $113.5  million of proceeds from  disposition of
assets.

     The Company strives to maintain its  indebtedness  at reasonable  levels in
order to provide  sufficient  financial  flexibility to take advantage of future
opportunities.  The Company's  capital budget for 2004 is expected to range from
$550 million to $600  million.  The Company  believes  that net cash provided by
operating  activities  during 2004 will be  sufficient  to fund the 2004 capital
expenditures  budget  as well as  reduce  long-term  debt by a  minimum  of $100
million and fund the recently  approved plan to begin an annual dividend program
of $.20 per common share beginning in 2004. For additional information regarding
the Company's plans for 2004, see "2004 Outlook" above.

     Contractual  obligations,  including  off-balance  sheet  obligations.  The
Company's  contractual  obligations  include  long-term debt,  operating leases,
drilling commitments, derivative obligations and other liabilities. From time to
time, the Company enters into  off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions
that can give rise to material  off-balance sheet obligations of the Company. As
of  December  31,  2003,  the  material   off-balance  sheet   arrangements  and
transactions  that the  Company has entered  into  include (i) $47.6  million of
undrawn  letters of credit,  (ii)  operating  lease  agreements,  (iii) drilling
commitments and (iv) contractual  obligations for which the ultimate  settlement
amounts  are not fixed  and determinable  such as derivative  contracts that are


                                       37

<PAGE>



sensitive  to  future  changes  in  commodity  prices  and  gas   transportation
commitments. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk"  for a table of  changes  in the fair  value of the  Company's  derivative
contract assets and liabilities during the year ended December 31, 2003 and Note
I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional  information  regarding future
minimum lease payments and gas transportation commitments.

     The following  table  summarizes  by period the Company's  payments due for
contractual obligations estimated as of December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Payments Due by Year
                                             -------------------------------------------------
                                                           2005 and    2007 and
                                                2004         2006         2008      Thereafter
                                             ---------    ---------    ---------    ----------
                                                             (in thousands)

<S>                                          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
     Long-term debt (a)..................    $     -      $ 135,239    $ 669,750    $ 750,472
     Operating leases (b)................       35,515       81,669       44,950       24,174
     Drilling commitments (c)............       13,601        6,902          602          -
     Derivative obligations (d)..........      161,574       41,640        7,185          -
     Other liabilities (e)...............       38,798       36,201       32,790       76,650
                                              --------     --------     --------     --------

                                             $ 249,488    $ 301,651    $ 755,277    $ 851,296
                                              ========     ========     ========     ========
<FN>
- ------------
(a)  See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(b)  See Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
(c)  Drilling commitments represent future minimum expenditure commitments under
     contracts that the Company was a party to on December 31, 2003 for drilling
     rig services and well commitments.
(d)  Derivative  obligations represent net liabilities for oil and gas commodity
     derivatives  that were valued as of December  31, 2003.  These  liabilities
     include  $8.8 million of current  liabilities  that are fixed in amount and
     are not subject to continuing market risk. The ultimate  settlement amounts
     of the  remaining  portions of the  Company's  derivative  obligations  are
     unknown  because they are subject to continuing  market risk. See "Item 7A.
     Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note J of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the
     Company's derivative obligations.
(e)  The Company's  other  liabilities  represent  current and noncurrent  other
     liabilities   that  are  comprised  of  benefit   obligations,   litigation
     contingencies, asset retirement obligations and other obligations for which
     neither the ultimate  settlement amounts nor their timings can be precisely
     determined  in  advance.  See  Notes G, I and L of  Notes  to  Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the Company's
     benefit   obligations,   litigation   contingencies  and  asset  retirement
     obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Capital  resources.  The Company's  primary capital  resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 2004.

     Operating activities.  Net cash provided by operating activities during the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $763.7 million, $332.2 million
and $475.6 million,  respectively.  Net cash provided by operating activities in
2003 increased by $431.5 million,  or 130 percent,  as compared to that of 2002.
The  increase in 2003 was  primarily  due to  increased  production  volumes and
higher  commodity  prices as compared to 2002.  Net cash  provided by  operating
activities in 2002 decreased by $143.4  million,  or 30 percent,  as compared to
that of 2001. The decrease in 2002 net cash provided by operating activities was
principally due to declines in commodity prices, offset partially by declines in
interest expense.

     Investing  activities.  Net cash used in  investing  activities  during the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001were $662.3 million,  $508.1 million
and  $422.7  million.  The $154.2  million  increase  in cash used in  investing
activities  during 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due to a $73.4 million
increase in additions to oil and gas properties and an $83.2 million decrease in
proceeds from disposition of assets.  The cash proceeds from asset  divestitures
during 2003 were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness. The cash proceeds from
asset  divestitures  during  2002 and 2001 were  used to fund a  portion  of the
Company's  2002  and  2001  capital   expenditures  and  for  general  corporate
obligations.  See  "Results  of  Operations",  above,  and  Note N of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.


                                       38

<PAGE>




     Financing  activities.  Net cash used in financing activities totaled $91.7
million and $64.0  million  during the years ended  December  31, 2003 and 2001.
During the year ended December 31, 2002,  financing  activities  provided $170.9
million of net cash. During 2003,  financing activities were comprised of $105.5
million of net principle  payments on long-term debt,  $14.1 million of payments
of other noncurrent  liabilities,  $2.8 million of loan fees and $2.3 million of
treasury stock purchases, partially offset by $33.0 million of proceeds from the
exercise of long-term incentive plan stock options and employee stock purchases.
During 2002, the Company's financing activities were comprised of $236.0 million
of proceeds,  net of issuance costs, from the sale of 11.5 million shares of the
Company's  common stock;  $48.0 million of net borrowings of long-term debt; and
$14.4  million of proceeds from the exercise of long-term  incentive  plan stock
options and employee  stock  purchases,  partially  offset by $124.2  million of
payments  of other  noncurrent  liabilities  and $3.3  million of debt  issuance
costs.  During 2001, the Company's  financing  activities were comprised of $5.1
million  to repay  long-term  debt,  $53.4  million  to repay  other  noncurrent
liabilities and $13.0 million to purchase  treasury stock,  partially  offset by
$7.5 million of net cash provided from the exercise of long-term  incentive plan
stock options and employee stock purchases.

     Over the three year period ended December 31, 2003, the Company has entered
into financing  transactions with the intent of reducing its cost of capital and
increasing liquidity through the extension of debt maturities. See Notes E and J
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and  Supplemental  Data" and "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative
Disclosures  About Market Risk" for more  information  about the Company's  debt
instruments and interest rate hedging activities.

     The Company's future debt level is dependent primarily on net cash provided
by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and  proceeds
generated  from asset  dispositions.  The Company  believes  it has  substantial
borrowing capacity to meet any unanticipated  cash requirements,  and during low
commodity price periods,  the Company has the flexibility to increase borrowings
and/or  modify its capital  spending  to meet its  contractual  obligations  and
maintain its debt ratings.

     As the Company  pursues its  strategy,  it may  utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Company's Board of Directors.

     Liquidity.  The Company's  principal source of short-term  liquidity is its
revolving credit facility.  During December 2003, the Company entered into a new
five-year revolving credit agreement (the "New Credit Facility") that matures in
December  2008.  The New Credit  Facility  replaced the  Company's  $575 million
revolving  credit  facility (the "Prior Credit  Facility")  that had a scheduled
maturity in March 2005. The terms of the New Credit Facility provide for initial
aggregate loan  commitments of $700 million from a syndication of  participating
banks (the "Lenders").  Aggregate loan commitments under the New Credit Facility
may be  increased  to a maximum  aggregate  amount of $1 billion if the  Lenders
increase  their  loan   commitments   or  loan   commitments  of  new  financial
institutions are added to the New Credit Facility.  Outstanding borrowings under
the New Credit Facility totaled $160 million as of December 31, 2003.  Including
$28.8 million of undrawn and outstanding  letters of credit under the New Credit
Facility,  the Company  has $511.2  million of unused  borrowing  capacity as of
December 31, 2003.

     Book capitalization and current ratio. The Company's book capitalization at
December  31,  2003 was $3.3  billion,  consisting  of debt of $1.6  billion and
stockholders'  equity of $1.7 billion. The Company's debt to book capitalization
was 46.9  percent at December  31, 2003 as compared to 54.8  percent at December
31, 2002. The Company's  ratio of current assets to current  liabilities was .48
at December 31, 2003 and .54 at December 31, 2002.  The decline in the Company's
ratio of current assets to current liabilities was primarily due to increases in
current hedge derivative obligations and trade payables. As more fully discussed
in "2004  Outlook"  above,  the  Company  has  targeted a range for debt to book
capitalization of between 37 percent and 43 percent.


                                       39

<PAGE>



New Accounting Development

     In its  recent  review of  registrants'  filings,  the staff of the SEC has
taken the position  that  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 142,
"Goodwill  and Other  Intangible  Assets"  ("SFAS  142"),  requires  oil and gas
entities to  separately  report on their  balance  sheets the costs of leasehold
mineral interests, including related accumulated depletion, as intangible assets
and provide related disclosures. The Company has historically included producing
leasehold costs in the proved properties  caption on its balance sheet since the
value of the leases is  inseparable  from the value of the  related  oil and gas
reserves.  This classification is consistent with the provisions of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing  Companies",  and standard industry  practice.  Almost all
costs  included in the  unproved  properties  caption on the  balance  sheet are
leasehold mineral interests that are regularly evaluated for impairment based on
lease term and  drilling  activity.  The SEC staff has  referred the question of
SFAS 142  applicability  for consideration by the Emerging Issues Task Force. If
the  provisions  of SFAS  142 are  determined  to be  applicable  to oil and gas
leasehold  mineral  interests,  reclassifications  within  property,  plant  and
equipment on the Consolidated  Balance Sheets and additional  disclosures may be
required.  As of December 31, 2003, the Company has not determined the amount of
such  reclassifications,  if  applicable.  The Company does not believe that the
provisions  of SFAS 142, if determined  to be  applicable,  will have a material
impact on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The following  quantitative  and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2003
and 2002,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates or commodity  prices.
Although  certain  derivative  contracts  that the  Company is a party to do not
qualify as hedges, the Company does not enter into derivative or other financial
instruments for trading purposes.

     The fair value of the Company's  derivative  contracts are determined based
on  counterparties'  estimates and valuation models.  The Company did not change
its valuation  method during the year ended December 31, 2003.  During 2003, the
Company  was a party  to  forward  foreign  exchange  contracts,  commodity  and
interest rate swap contracts and commodity collar contracts. See Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the Company's
derivative  contracts,   including  deferred  gains  and  losses  on  terminated
derivative  contracts.  The following table reconciles the changes that occurred
in the fair values of the Company's open derivative contracts during 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Derivative Contract Assets (Liabilities)
                                               -------------------------------------------------
                                                                          Foreign
                                                              Interest    Exchange
                                               Commodity         Rate       Rate         Total
                                               ----------    ---------    --------    ----------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                            <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>
  Fair value of contracts outstanding
      as of December 31, 2002..............    $ (108,804)   $     -      $   15      $(108,789)
  Changes in contract fair values (a)......      (282,530)      21,497         3       (261,030)
  Contract realizations:
      Maturities...........................       136,425       (3,230)      (18)       133,177
      Termination - cash settlements.......           125      (18,267)      -          (18,142)
      Termination - future net obligations.        53,362          -         -           53,362
                                                 --------     --------     -----       --------
  Fair value of contracts outstanding
      as of December 31, 2003..............    $ (201,422)   $     -      $  -        $(201,422)
                                                =========     ========     =====       ========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a) At inception, new derivative contracts entered into by the Company have no
intrinsic value.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Quantitative Disclosures

     Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide  information about
other financial  instruments  that the Company was a party to as of December 31,
2003 and 2002 and that are or were sensitive to changes in interest  rates.  For
debt obligations,  the tables present maturities by expected maturity dates, the
weighted  average interest  rates expected to be paid  on the debt given current


                                       40

<PAGE>



contractual terms and market conditions and the debt's estimated fair value. For
fixed rate debt, the weighted  average  interest rate represents the contractual
fixed rates that the Company was obligated to periodically pay on the debt as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002.  For variable rate debt,  the average  interest rate
represents  the  average  rates  being  paid  on  the  debt  projected   forward
proportionate to the forward yield curve for the six-month LIBOR.

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2003

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                 Liability
                                                  Year Ended December 31,                                      Fair Value at
                               ----------------------------------------------------------------                 December 31,
                                 2004      2005       2006       2007       2008     Thereafter      Total          2003
                               -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   -----------   ------------
                                                      (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                            <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>           <C>
Total Debt:
  Fixed rate maturities......  $   -     $135,239   $    -     $155,253   $354,497    $ 750,472    $1,395,461   $(1,549,026)
  Weighted average
    interest rate (%)........     7.93       7.86       7.83       7.81       8.34         8.37
  Variable rate maturities...  $   -     $    -     $    -     $    -     $160,000    $     -      $  160,000   $  (160,000)
  Average interest rate (%)..     2.87       4.28       5.27       5.91       6.28          -
</TABLE>


                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2002

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                 Liability
                                                  Year Ended December 31,                                      Fair Value at
                               ----------------------------------------------------------------                 December 31,
                                 2003      2004       2005       2006       2007     Thereafter      Total          2002
                               -------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------   -------------
                                                      (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                            <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  Fixed rate maturities.....   $   -     $    -     $146,704   $    -     $161,130   $1,100,702   $1,408,536   $(1,484,009)
  Weighted average
    interest rate (%).......      7.94       7.94       7.87       7.83       7.81         7.77
  Variable rate maturities..   $   -     $    -     $260,000   $    -     $    -     $      -     $  260,000   $  (260,000)
  Average interest rate (%).      2.89       4.08       5.27        -          -            -
</TABLE>

     Foreign  exchange  rate  sensitivity.  There  were no  outstanding  foreign
exchange rate hedge  derivatives  at December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2002,
the Company  was a party to a foreign  exchange  rate  derivative  that  matured
during January 2003 as an $18 thousand asset of the Company.

     Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information about
the Company's oil and gas derivative  financial  instruments that were sensitive
to  changes  in oil and gas  prices as of  December  31,  2003 and  2002.  As of
December  31,  2003  and  2002,  all of the  Company's  oil and  gas  derivative
financial instruments qualified as hedges.

     Commodity hedge  instruments.  The Company hedges commodity price risk with
swap and collar  contracts.  Swap contracts provide a fixed price for a notional
amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts provide minimum ("floor") and maximum
("ceiling")  prices  for the  Company  on a  notional  amount of sales  volumes,
thereby  allowing some price  participation  if the relevant  index price closes
above the floor price.

     See Notes B, C and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a description of
the accounting  procedures  followed by the Company relative to hedge derivative
financial  instruments and for specific  information  regarding the terms of the
Company's derivative financial  instruments that are sensitive to changes in oil
and gas prices.



                                       41

<PAGE>



                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2003
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                    Liability
                                                          Year Ended December 31,                 Fair Value at
                                           ----------------------------------------------------    December 31,
                                             2004       2005       2006       2007       2008          2003
                                           --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   -------------
<S>                                        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
   Swap contracts........................    18,973     17,000      5,000      1,000      5,000     $ (50,240)
   Weighted average fixed price per Bbl..  $  25.84   $  24.93   $  26.19   $  26.00   $  26.09
   Average forward NYMEX oil prices (b)..  $  30.12   $  28.03   $  27.09   $  26.55   $  26.60
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices per Bbl by calendar quarter.
(b)  The average  forward NYMEX oil prices per Bbl are based on January 30, 2004
     market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Liability
                                                         Year Ended December 31,    Fair Value at
                                                         -----------------------     December 31,
                                                            2003         2004            2002
                                                         ----------   ----------    -------------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>           <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
 Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
   Swap contracts....................................       22,236       14,000      $ (19,912)
   Weighted average fixed price per Bbl..............     $  24.45     $  23.11
   Average forward NYMEX oil prices (a)..............     $  31.55     $  25.75
<FN>
- ---------------
(a) The average forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 18, 2003 market
quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2003
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 Liability
                                                               Year Ended December 31,          Fair Value at
                                                      --------------------------------------    December 31,
                                                        2004       2005      2006      2007         2003
                                                      --------   -------   -------   -------   --------------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional Mcf volumes (b):
   Swap contracts (c)...............................   283,962    60,000    70,000    20,000     $ (151,182)
   Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu...........  $   4.16   $  4.24   $  4.16   $  3.51
   Average forward NYMEX gas prices (d).............  $   4.66   $  5.04   $  4.74   $  4.60
<FN>
- --------------
(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(b)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices per MMBtu by calendar quarter.
(c)  During January 2004, the Company  increased its 2004 gas hedge positions by
     entering into 32,967 Mcf per day of first  quarter 2004 gas swap  contracts
     with weighted average per MMBtu fixed prices of $7.11.
(d)  The  average  forward  NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu are based on January  30,
     2004 market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       42

<PAGE>



                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2002
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                 Year Ended December 31,            Liability
                                                       ----------------------------------------   Fair Value at
                                                                                        2006 &     December 31,
                                                         2003       2004       2005      2007          2002
                                                       --------   --------   --------   -------   -------------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a):
  Average daily notional Mcf volumes:
    Swap contracts...................................   230,000    180,000     10,000    20,000     $ (88,892)
     Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu..........  $   3.76   $   3.81   $   3.70   $  3.75
  Average forward NYMEX gas prices (b)...............  $   5.53   $   4.80   $   4.31   $  4.12
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.
(b)  The average  forward  NYMEX gas prices per MMBtu are based on February  18,
     2003 market quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Qualitative Disclosures

     Non-derivative financial instruments. The Company is a borrower under fixed
rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate risk.
The  Company's  objective in borrowing  under fixed or variable  rate debt is to
satisfy capital  requirements  while  minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
See Note E of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" for a discussion of the Company's
debt instruments.

     Derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company  utilizes  interest  rate,
foreign exchange rate and commodity price derivative contracts to hedge interest
rate,  foreign  exchange  rate and  commodity  price  risks in  accordance  with
policies  and  guidelines  approved  by the  Company's  board of  directors.  In
accordance  with  those  policies  and  guidelines,   the  Company's   executive
management determines the appropriate timing and extent of hedge transactions.

     As of December 31, 2003, the Company's  primary risk  exposures  associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility,  volatility  in the  exchange  rates  of  the  Canadian  dollar  and
Argentine  peso vis a vis the U.S.  dollar and  interest  rate  volatility.  The
Company's primary risk exposures associated with financial  instruments have not
changed significantly since December 31, 2003.

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                                                           Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of
  Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
    Independent Auditors' Report.......................................     44
    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.......     45
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
       December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................................     46
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
       Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001....................     47
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
       December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................................     48
    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for
       the Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................     49
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.........................     50
    Unaudited Supplementary Information................................     88


                                       43

<PAGE>



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Pioneer
Natural  Resources Company (the "Company") as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
the related consolidated  statements of operations,  stockholders'  equity, cash
flows and comprehensive  income (loss) for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2003. These financial  statements are the  responsibility  of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
the Company at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the  consolidated  results of its
operations  and its cash flows for each of the three  years in the period  ended
December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting  principles  generally accepted
in the United States.

     As discussed in Note B to the consolidated  financial  statements,  in 2003
the  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement  Obligations".  Also, as discussed in Note B to
the consolidated financial statements,  in 2001 the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting  Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and Hedging Activities".



                                                      Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
January 26, 2004


                                       44

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)


                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              December 31,
                                                                       -------------------------
                                                                           2003         2002
                                                                       -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                    <C>           <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..........................................  $    19,299   $     8,490
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,727 and
      $4,744 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively..........      111,033        97,774
    Due from affiliates..............................................          447           448
  Inventories........................................................       17,509        10,648
  Prepaid expenses...................................................       11,083         5,485
  Deferred income taxes..............................................       40,514        13,900
  Other current assets:
    Derivatives......................................................          423         2,508
    Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,486
      and $3,351 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively......        4,807         7,840
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total current assets...........................................      205,115       147,093
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts method
   of accounting:
    Proved properties................................................    4,983,558     4,252,897
    Unproved properties..............................................      179,825       219,073
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization...............   (1,676,136)   (1,303,541)
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total property, plant and equipment............................    3,487,247     3,168,429
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Deferred income taxes................................................      192,344        76,840
Other property and equipment, net....................................       28,080        22,784
Other assets:
  Derivatives........................................................          209           643
  Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $92 and
    $1,227 as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively............       38,577        39,327
                                                                        ----------    ----------
                                                                       $ 3,951,572   $ 3,455,116
                                                                        ==========    ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade............................................................  $   177,614   $   117,582
    Due to affiliates................................................        8,804         7,192
  Interest payable...................................................       37,034        37,458
  Income taxes payable...............................................        5,928           -
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivatives......................................................      161,574        83,638
    Other............................................................       38,798        28,722
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total current liabilities......................................      429,752       274,592
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Long-term debt.......................................................    1,555,461     1,668,536
Derivatives..........................................................       48,825        42,490
Deferred income taxes................................................       12,121         8,760
Other liabilities....................................................      145,641        85,841
Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    119,665,784 and 119,592,344 shares issued at December 31,
    2003 and 2002, respectively......................................        1,197         1,196
  Additional paid-in capital.........................................    2,734,403     2,714,567
  Treasury stock, at cost; 378,012 and 2,339,806 shares at
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.........................       (5,385)      (32,219)
  Deferred compensation..............................................       (9,933)      (14,292)
  Accumulated deficit................................................     (887,848)   (1,298,440)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
    Net deferred hedge gains (losses), net of tax....................     (104,130)        9,555
    Cumulative translation adjustment................................       31,468        (5,470)
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total stockholders' equity.....................................    1,759,772     1,374,897
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Commitments and contingencies
                                                                        ----------    ----------
                                                                       $ 3,951,572   $ 3,455,116
                                                                        ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       45

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                                 --------------------------------------
                                                                    2003          2002          2001
                                                                 ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                              <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas.................................................   $1,298,647    $  701,780    $  847,022
  Interest and other..........................................       12,292        11,222        21,778
  Gain on disposition of assets, net..........................        1,256         4,432         7,681
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                  1,312,195       717,434       876,481
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production......................................      279,526       199,570       209,664
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization....................      390,840       216,375       222,632
  Exploration and abandonments................................      132,760        85,894       127,906
  General and administrative..................................       60,545        48,402        36,968
  Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations.......        5,040           -             -
  Interest....................................................       91,388        95,815       131,958
  Other.......................................................       21,320        39,602        43,341
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                                    981,419       685,658       772,469
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of
  change in accounting principle..............................      330,776        31,776       104,012
Income tax benefit (provision)................................       64,403        (5,063)       (4,016)
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
Income before cumulative effect of change in
  accounting principle........................................      395,179        26,713        99,996
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
  net of tax..................................................       15,413           -             -
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
Net income....................................................   $  410,592    $   26,713    $   99,996
                                                                  =========     =========     =========
Net income per share:
  Basic:
     Income before cumulative effect of change in
       accounting principle...................................   $     3.37    $      .24    $     1.01
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
       net of tax.............................................          .13           -           -
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
     Net income...............................................   $     3.50    $      .24    $     1.01
                                                                  =========     =========     =========
  Diluted:
     Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
       principle..............................................   $     3.33    $      .23    $     1.00
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
       net of tax.............................................          .13           -           -
                                                                  ---------     ---------     ---------
     Net income...............................................   $     3.46    $      .23    $     1.00
                                                                  =========     =========     =========
Weighted average shares outstanding:
     Basic....................................................      117,185       112,542        98,529
                                                                  =========     =========     =========
     Diluted..................................................      118,513       114,288        99,714
                                                                  =========     =========     =========
</TABLE>


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                                       46

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
                                                                                                 Accumulated Other
                                                                                             Comprehensive Income (Loss)
                                                                                           ------------------------------
                                                                                            Net
                                                                                          Deferred
                                                                                           Hedge
                                                                                           Gains    Invest-   Cumulative   Total
                                            Additional            Deferred                (Losses)   ment       Trans-     Stock-
                                   Common    Paid-in    Treasury   Compen-   Accumulated     Net    Gains &     lation     holders'
                                    Stock    Capital     Stock     sation      Deficit     of tax   Losses    Adjustment   Equity
                                   -------  ----------  --------  ---------  -----------  --------  --------  ---------- ----------

<S>                                <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>
Balance at January 1, 2001........ $ 1,013  $2,352,608  $(37,682) $   -      $(1,422,703) $     -    $  8,154  $ 3,515   $  904,905

Common stock issued for
  partnership acquisitions........      57     104,236       -        -              -          -         -        -        104,293
Stock options exercised and
  employee stock purchases........       4       5,428     2,708      -             (636)       -         -        -          7,504
Purchase of treasury stock........     -           -     (13,028)     -              -          -         -        -        (13,028)
Net income........................     -           -         -        -           99,996        -         -        -         99,996
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses):
    Transition adjustment.........     -           -         -        -              -     (197,444)      -        -       (197,444)
    Net deferred hedge gains......     -           -         -        -              -      395,297       -        -        395,297
    Tax provisions related to
     deferred hedge gains.........     -           -         -        -              -       (2,293)      -        -         (2,293)
    Net hedge losses included in
     net income...................     -           -         -        -              -        5,486       -        -          5,486
  Net unrealized gains (losses)
   on available for sale securities:
    Net unrealized available for sale
     securities holding losses....     -           -         -        -              -          -         (45)     -            (45)
    Net available for sale securities
     gains included in net income.     -           -         -        -              -          -      (8,109)     -         (8,109)
  Translation adjustment..........     -           -         -        -              -          -         -     (11,173)    (11,173)
                                    ------   --------    -------   ------     ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2001......   1,074   2,462,272   (48,002)     -       (1,323,343)   201,046       -      (7,658)  1,285,389
                                    ------   ---------   -------   ------     ----------   --------   -------   -------   ---------

Issuance of common stock..........     115     235,885       -        -              -          -         -         -       236,000
Adjustment to common stock issued
  for 2001 partnership
  acquisitions....................     -          (175)      -        -              -          -         -         -          (175)
Stock options exercised and
  employee stock purchases........     -           416    15,783      -           (1,810)       -         -         -        14,389
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred...........       7      16,169       -    (16,176)           -          -         -         -           -
  Deferred compensation included
   in net income..................     -           -         -      1,884            -          -         -         -         1,884
Net income........................     -           -         -        -           26,713        -         -         -        26,713
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses):
    Net deferred hedge losses.....     -           -         -        -               -     (181,628)     -         -      (181,628)
    Tax benefits related to
     deferred hedge losses........     -           -         -        -               -        2,561      -         -         2,561
    Net hedge gains included
     in net income................     -           -         -        -               -      (12,424)     -         -       (12,424)
  Translation adjustment..........     -           -         -        -               -          -        -       2,188       2,188
                                    ------   ---------   -------   -------     ----------   --------  -------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2002......   1,196   2,714,567   (32,219)  (14,292)    (1,298,440)     9,555      -      (5,470)  1,374,897
                                    ------   ---------   -------   -------     ----------   --------  -------   -------   ---------

Stock options exercised and
 employee stock purchases.........       1       4,100    29,183       -              -          -        -         -        33,284
Purchase of treasury stock........     -           -      (2,349)      -              -          -        -         -        (2,349)
Tax benefits related to
 stock-based compensation.........     -        14,666       -         -              -          -        -         -        14,666
Deferred compensation:
  Compensation deferred...........     -         1,070       -      (1,070)           -          -        -         -           -
  Deferred compensation included
   in net income..................     -           -         -       5,429            -          -        -         -         5,429
Net income........................     -           -         -         -          410,592        -        -         -       410,592
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses),
   net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge losses.....     -           -          -        -              -     (282,165)     -         -      (282,165)
    Tax benefits related to net
     deferred hedge losses........     -           -          -        -              -       51,064      -         -        51,064
    Net hedge losses included in
     net income...................     -           -          -        -              -      117,416      -         -       117,416
  Translation adjustment..........     -           -          -        -              -          -        -      36,938      36,938
                                    ------   ---------   -------   -------      ---------   --------   ------   -------   ---------
Balance at December 31, 2003...... $ 1,197  $2,734,403  $ (5,385) $ (9,933)   $  (887,848) $(104,130) $   -    $ 31,468  $1,759,772
                                    ======   =========   =======   =======     ==========   ========   ======   =======   =========

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>


                                       47

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     --------------------------------------
                                                                        2003          2002          2001
                                                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income.....................................................    $  410,592    $   26,713    $   99,996
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization..................       390,840       216,375       222,632
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes.................        97,690        64,617       103,595
       Deferred income taxes.....................................       (75,588)        2,788        (7,649)
       Gain on disposition of assets, net........................        (1,256)       (4,432)       (7,681)
       Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations.....         5,040           -             -
       Interest related amortization.............................       (20,610)       (5,809)        8,689
       Commodity hedge related amortization......................       (71,816)       26,490         6,199
       Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle,
          net of tax.............................................       (15,413)          -             -
       Other noncash items.......................................        10,395        31,647        18,697
     Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects
         from acquisitions:
       Accounts receivable, net..................................       (10,983)      (23,922)       41,295
       Inventories...............................................        (7,734)        3,023        (4,256)
       Prepaid expenses..........................................        (5,598)        2,330        (4,328)
       Other current assets, net.................................          (602)       (4,166)       (1,976)
       Accounts payable..........................................        58,603          (342)         (541)
       Interest payable..........................................          (424)           48          (733)
       Income taxes payable......................................         5,928          (530)          530
       Other current liabilities.................................        (5,385)       (2,585)        1,131
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
       Net cash provided by operating activities.................       763,679       332,245       475,600
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisitions, net of fees paid................           -             -          11,119
  Proceeds from disposition of assets............................        35,698       118,850       113,453
  Additions to oil and gas properties............................      (688,133)     (614,698)     (529,723)
  Other property additions, net..................................        (9,865)      (12,283)      (17,590)
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
       Net cash used in investing activities.....................      (662,300)     (508,131)     (422,741)
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt................................       264,725       529,805       328,331
  Principal payments on long-term debt...........................      (370,262)     (481,783)     (333,410)
  Common stock issuance proceeds, net of issuance costs..........           -         236,000           -
  Payment of other liabilities...................................       (14,055)     (124,245)      (53,437)
  Stock options exercised and employee stock purchases...........        33,020        14,389         7,504
  Purchase of treasury stock.....................................        (2,349)          -         (13,028)
  Deferred loan fees/debt issuance costs.........................        (2,799)       (3,293)          -
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
       Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities.......       (91,720)      170,873       (64,040)
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ............         9,659        (5,013)      (11,181)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents.....         1,150          (831)         (644)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year.....................         8,490        14,334        26,159
                                                                      ---------     ---------     ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year...........................    $   19,299    $    8,490    $   14,334
                                                                      =========     =========     =========
</TABLE>

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       48

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            Year ended December 31,
                                                                    --------------------------------------
                                                                       2003          2002         2001
                                                                    ----------    ----------    ----------

<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>           <C>
Net income......................................................    $  410,592    $   26,713    $   99,996

Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses), net of tax:
     Transition adjustment......................................           -             -        (197,444)
     Net deferred hedge gains (losses)..........................      (282,165)     (181,628)      395,297
     Tax benefits (provisions) related to net deferred
       hedge (gains) losses.....................................        51,064         2,561        (2,293)
     Net hedge (gains) losses included in net income............       117,416       (12,424)        5,486
  Net unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale
   securities:
     Net unrealized available for sale securities
       holding losses...........................................           -             -             (45)
     Net available for sale securities gains included
       in net income............................................           -             -          (8,109)
  Translation adjustment........................................        36,938         2,188       (11,173)
                                                                     ---------     ---------     ----------
        Other comprehensive income (loss).......................       (76,747)     (189,303)      181,719
                                                                     ---------     ---------     ---------
Comprehensive income (loss).....................................    $  333,845    $ (162,590)   $  281,715
                                                                     =========     =========     =========
</TABLE>


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.



                                       49

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

     Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  (the  "Company"  or  "Pioneer")  is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange. The Company is an oil and gas exploration and production company
with ownership interests in oil and gas properties located in the United States,
Argentina, Canada, South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements include
the  accounts  of the  Company  and its  wholly-owned  subsidiaries  since their
acquisition or formation,  and the Company's  interest in the affiliated oil and
gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  The Company proportionately  consolidates less than
100 percent-owned oil and gas partnerships in accordance with industry practice.
The Company owns less than a 20 percent interest in the oil and gas partnerships
that it proportionately  consolidates.  All material  intercompany  balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

     Investments  in  unaffiliated   equity   securities  that  have  a  readily
determinable  fair value are classified as "trading  securities" if management's
current intent is to hold them for only a short period of time; otherwise,  they
are accounted for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The Company reevaluates
the  classification  of investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities at each
balance   sheet   date.   The   carrying   value  of  trading   securities   and
available-for-sale  securities  are  adjusted  to fair value as of each  balance
sheet date.

     Unrealized  holding gains are recognized for trading securities in interest
and other revenue, and unrealized holding losses are recognized in other expense
during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.

     Unrealized  holding gains and losses are recognized for  available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income (loss) during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.  Realized
gains  and  losses  on the  divestiture  of  available-for-sale  securities  are
determined  using the average cost  method.  The Company had no  investments  in
available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2003 or 2002.

     Investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities that do not have a readily
determinable  fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost or the
net realizable  value of the investment.  The Company had no significant  equity
security  investments that did not have a readily  determinable fair value as of
December 31, 2003 or 2002.

     Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements. Preparation of
the accompanying  consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the  reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities,  the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting  periods.  Depletion of oil and gas  properties  is  determined  using
estimates  of proved  oil and gas  reserves.  There are  numerous  uncertainties
inherent  in  the  estimation  of  quantities  of  proved  reserves  and  in the
projection  of  future  rates  of  production  and  the  timing  of  development
expenditures.  Similarly,  evaluations for impairment of proved and unproved oil
and gas  properties  are  subject to  numerous  uncertainties  including,  among
others,  estimates of future  recoverable  reserves;  commodity  price outlooks;
foreign laws,  restrictions  and currency  exchange rates; and export and excise
taxes.

     Argentina  devaluation.  Early in January 2002,  the  Argentine  government
severed the direct  one-to-one U.S. dollar to Argentine peso  relationship  that
had existed for many years.  As of December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company used
exchange  rates  of 2.93  pesos to $1 and 3.37  pesos  to $1,  respectively,  to
remeasure the  peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of the Company's


                                       50

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


Argentine subsidiaries.  The remeasurement of the peso-denominated  monetary net
assets of the Company's Argentine  subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002
resulted in a charge of $.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively.

     As a result of certain  Argentine  stability laws and  regulations  enacted
since the  devaluation  of the Argentine peso which impact the price the Company
receives for the oil and gas it produces,  the Company has continually  reviewed
its Argentine  proved and unproved  properties  for  impairment  during 2003 and
2002.  Based on estimates of future  commodity  prices and operating  costs, the
Company  believes that the future cash flows from its oil and gas assets will be
sufficient to fully recover its proved property basis. The Company also plans to
continue its exploration efforts on all of its remaining unproved acreage. Based
upon the Company's  improved  economic  outlook for  Argentina,  the Company has
significantly  increased  its capital  budget for  exploration  and  development
activities in 2004 as compared to the capital budgets in 2003 and 2002.

     While the Argentine economic and political  situation continues to improve,
the Argentine  government may enact future  regulations  or policies that,  when
finalized  and  adopted,  may  materially  impact,  among other  items,  (i) the
realized prices the Company  receives for the commodities it produces and sells;
(ii) the timing of repatriations of excess cash flow to the Company's  corporate
headquarters in the United States;  (iii) the Company's asset  valuations;  (iv)
the Company's level of future investments in Argentina; and (v) peso-denominated
monetary  assets and  liabilities.  While  conditions  are  improving,  numerous
uncertainties exist surrounding the ultimate resolution of Argentina's  economic
and political stability and actual results could differ from those estimates and
assumptions utilized.

     New accounting pronouncements.  On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 143, "Accounting
for Asset Retirement  Obligations"  ("SFAS 143").  SFAS 143 amended Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 19, "Financial  Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing Companies" ("SFAS 19") to require that the fair value of a
liability  for an asset  retirement  obligation  be  recognized in the period in
which it is incurred if a reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  Under
the provisions of SFAS 143, asset  retirement  obligations  were  capitalized as
part of the carrying value of the long-lived asset. Under the provisions of SFAS
19,  asset  retirement  obligations  are  recognized  using a  cost-accumulation
approach.  Prior  to the  adoption  of SFAS  143,  the  Company  recorded  asset
retirement  obligations through the  unit-of-production  method, except for such
asset retirement obligations that were assumed in business  combinations,  which
were recorded at their estimated fair values.

     The  adoption of SFAS 143 resulted in a January 1, 2003  cumulative  effect
adjustment  to record (i) a $13.8  million  increase in the  carrying  values of
proved  properties,  (ii) a $26.3 million decrease in accumulated  depreciation,
depletion,  and  amortization  of property,  plant and  equipment,  (iii) a $1.0
million  increase  in  current  abandonment  liabilities,  (iv) a $22.4  million
increase in noncurrent  abandonment  liabilities and (v) a $1.3 million increase
in  Argentine  deferred  income  tax  liabilities.  The net  impact of items (i)
through (v) was to record a gain of $15.4  million,  net of tax, as a cumulative
effect  adjustment  of  a  change  in  accounting  principle  in  the  Company's
Consolidated Statements of Operations upon adoption on January 1, 2003.

     The  following pro forma data  summarizes  the Company's net income and net
income per share for the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001 as if the
Company  had adopted the  provisions  of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2001,  including
aggregate pro forma asset retirement obligations on that date of $60.2 million:



                                       51

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year ended December 31,
                                                     ----------------------------------------
                                                        2003            2002           2001
                                                     ---------       ---------      ---------
                                                     (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>            <C>
   Net income, as reported........................   $ 410,592       $  26,713      $  99,996
   Pro forma adjustments to reflect retroactive
      adoption of SFAS 143........................     (15,413)          4,743          1,672
                                                      --------        --------       --------
   Pro forma net income...........................   $ 395,179       $  31,456      $ 101,668
                                                      ========        ========       ========
   Net income per share:
      Basic - as reported.........................   $    3.50       $     .24      $    1.01
                                                      ========        ========       ========
      Basic - pro forma...........................   $    3.37       $     .28      $    1.03
                                                      ========        ========       ========
      Diluted - as reported.......................   $    3.46       $     .23      $    1.00
                                                      ========        ========       ========
      Diluted - pro forma.........................   $    3.33       $     .28      $    1.02
                                                      ========        ========       ========
</TABLE>

     On January 1, 2003,  the Company  adopted the  provisions  of  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44
and 64,  Amendment of FASB  Statement No. 13 and Technical  Corrections"  ("SFAS
145").  Prior to SFAS 145, gains or losses on the early  extinguishment  of debt
were required to be classified in a company's periodic  consolidated  statements
of operations as extraordinary  gains or losses, net of associated income taxes,
after the determination of income or loss from continuing  operations.  SFAS 145
requires,  except in the case of events or  transactions of a highly unusual and
infrequent nature, that gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt be
classified,  on both a prospective and  retrospective  basis, as components of a
company's  income  or loss  from  continuing  operations.  The  adoption  of the
provisions  of SFAS 145 did not  affect  the  Company's  financial  position  or
liquidity.  Under the  provisions  of SFAS 145,  gains or losses  from the early
extinguishment  of  debt  will  be  recognized  in  the  Company's  Consolidated
Statements of Operations as components of other income or other expense and will
be included in the determination of the income (loss) from continuing operations
of  those   periods.   Accordingly,   extraordinary   losses   from  the   early
extinguishment  of debt of $22.3  million and $3.8 million  recorded  during the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively,  have been reclassified to
other expense.

     During  January  2003,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued
Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"),
which requires the  consolidation  of certain entities that are determined to be
variable interest entities  ("VIE's").  An entity is considered to be a VIE when
either  (i) the  entity  lacks  sufficient  equity  to  carry  on its  principal
operations, (ii) the equity owners of the entity cannot make decisions about the
entity's  activities  or (iii) the entity's  equity  neither  absorbs  losses or
benefits from gains.

     The Company has reviewed its financial  arrangements and has not identified
any material VIEs that should be  consolidated by the Company in accordance with
FIN 46.

     Cash  equivalents.  Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

     Inventories  -  equipment.  Lease and well  equipment  to be used in future
production  and drilling  activities are carried at the lower of cost or market,
on a first-in,  first-out  basis.  The Company has established  lower of cost or
market allowances to reduce the carrying values of its equipment  inventories in
the amounts of $.6 million  and $3.6  million as of December  31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

     Inventories - commodities.  Commodities are carried at the lower of average
cost or market. When sold from inventory, commodities are removed on a first-in,
first-out basis.

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company utilizes the successful efforts method
of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this  method,  all costs
associated  with  productive  wells  and  nonproductive  development  wells  are


                                       52

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical
expenditures  are expensed.  The Company also expenses the costs associated with
exploratory wells that find oil and gas reserves if a determination  that proved
reserves have been found cannot be made within one year of the exploration  well
being drilled unless other  drilling or  exploration  activities to evaluate the
discovery are firmly planned.  The Company capitalizes  interest on expenditures
for  significant  development  projects  until such projects are ready for their
intended use.

     The Company  owns  interests in 11 natural gas  processing  plants and five
treating  facilities.  The  Company  operates  seven of the  plants and all five
treating  facilities.  The  Company's  ownership  in the natural gas  processing
plants  and  treating  facilities  is  primarily  to  accommodate  handling  the
Company's gas  production and thus are considered a component of the capital and
operating costs of the respective  fields that they service.  To the extent that
there is excess capacity at a plant or treating  facility,  the Company attempts
to  process  third  party gas  volumes  for a fee to keep the plant or  treating
facility at capacity.  All  revenues  and expenses  derived from third party gas
volumes  processed  through the plants and treating  facilities  are reported as
components of oil and gas production  costs. The third party revenues  generated
from the plant and treating  facilities  for the three years ended  December 31,
2003,  2002 and 2001 were  $39.5  million,  $28.4  million  and  $32.7  million,
respectively.  The third party expenses  attributable to the plants and treating
facilities for the same respective periods were $11.3 million,  $9.3 million and
$9.7 million.  The capitalized  costs of the plants and treating  facilities are
included  in  proved  oil  and  gas   properties  and  are  depleted  using  the
unit-of-production  method along with the other  capitalized  costs of the field
that they service.

     Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties  are depleted  using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves.  Costs  of  significant
nonproducing  properties,  wells in the process of being drilled and development
projects are excluded from depletion  until such time as the related  project is
completed and proved reserves are established or, if unsuccessful, impairment is
determined.

     Capitalized costs of individual properties sold or abandoned are charged to
accumulated depletion,  depreciation and amortization with the proceeds from the
sales of individual  properties  credited to property  costs. No gain or loss is
recognized until the entire amortization base is sold. However,  gain or loss is
recognized  from  the  sale of  less  than an  entire  amortization  base if the
disposition is significant enough to materially impact the depletion rate of the
remaining properties in the amortization base.

     The Company  reviews its long-lived  assets to be held and used,  including
proved oil and gas properties  accounted for under the successful efforts method
of accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An impairment loss is indicated if the
sum of the expected  future cash flows is less than the  carrying  amount of the
assets. In this circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the
amount by which the  carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the  estimated  fair
value of the asset.

     Unproved  oil and gas  properties  that are  individually  significant  are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a  project-by-project  basis.  The  estimated  value is affected by the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or  expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of
potential  reserves  determined by such  evaluations  is not sufficient to fully
recover  the cost  invested  in each  project,  the Company  will  recognize  an
impairment loss at that time by recording an allowance.  The remaining  unproved
oil and gas  properties,  if  any,  are  aggregated  and an  overall  impairment
allowance is provided based on the Company's historical experience.

     Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are  recorded  at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

     Environmental.  The Company's  environmental  expenditures  are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused by  past  operations and  that have no future


                                       53

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or  mitigate  or  prevent  future   environmental   contamination  are
capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability are fixed or reliably determinable.

     Revenue recognition. The Company uses the entitlements method of accounting
for oil,  NGL and gas  revenues.  Sales  proceeds  in  excess  of the  Company's
entitlement  are included in other  liabilities and the Company's share of sales
taken by others is included  in other  assets in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Balance Sheets.  The following table presents the Company's  entitlement  assets
and entitlement liabilities and their associated volumes as of December 31, 2003
and 2002 ($ in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------
                                                       2003                2002
                                                 ----------------    ----------------
                                                 Amount     MMcf     Amount     MMcf
                                                 ------    ------    ------    ------

<S>                                              <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
    Entitlement assets......................     $ 10.5     3,929    $  9.7     4,240
    Entitlement liabilities.................     $ 15.8    14,793    $ 15.1    14,302
</TABLE>

     Derivatives and hedging. In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting  Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133,  "Accounting
for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133") as amended, the
provisions of which the Company adopted effective January 1, 2001.

     SFAS 133 requires the accounting  recognition of all derivative instruments
as either assets or liabilities at fair value.  Derivative  instruments that are
not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through net income  (loss).  Under the
provisions of SFAS 133, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that
are fair value hedges are offset against changes in the fair value of the hedged
assets,  liabilities,  or firm commitments through net income (loss).  Effective
changes in the fair value of  derivative  instruments  that are cash flow hedges
are recognized in "accumulated other comprehensive  income (loss) ("AOCI") - net
deferred hedge gains (losses),  net of tax" in the stockholders'  equity section
of the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets until such time as the hedged items
are  recognized  in net income  (loss).  Ineffective  portions  of a  derivative
instrument's  change in fair  value are  immediately  recognized  in net  income
(loss).

     The  adoption  of  SFAS  133  resulted  in a  January  1,  2001  transition
adjustment  to (i)  reclassify  $57.8  million of deferred  losses on terminated
hedge  positions  from other assets  (including  $11.6  million of other current
assets),  (ii)  increase  other current  assets,  other assets and other current
liabilities by $7.0 million, $6.2 million and $146.6 million,  respectively,  to
record the fair value of open hedge  derivatives,  (iii)  increase  the carrying
value of hedged  long-term  debt by $6.2  million and (iv) reduce  stockholders'
equity by $197.4  million for the net impact of items (i) through  (iii)  above.
The  $197.4  million  reduction  in  stockholders'  equity  was  reflected  as a
transition adjustment in other comprehensive income (loss) on January 1, 2001.

     Under the  provisions  of SFAS 133, the Company may  designate a derivative
instrument as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a
liability or an identified  portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk (a "fair  value  hedge") or as  hedging  the  exposure  to  variability  in
expected  future cash flows that are  attributable to a particular risk (a "cash
flow hedge").  Both at the inception of a hedge and on an ongoing  basis, a fair
value hedge must be  expected to be highly  effective  in  achieving  offsetting
changes in fair value  attributable to the hedged risk during the periods that a
hedge is designated.  Similarly, a cash flow hedge must be expected to be highly
effective in achieving  offsetting  cash flows  attributable  to the hedged risk
during the term of the hedge.  The  expectation of hedge  effectiveness  must be
supported  by matching the  essential  terms of the hedged  asset,  liability or
forecasted  transaction  to the derivative  hedge  contract or by  effectiveness
assessments  using statistical  measurements.  The Company's policy is to assess
actual hedge effectiveness at the end of each calendar quarter.


                                       54

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



     See  Note  J  for  a  description  of  the  specific  types  of  derivative
transactions in which the Company participates.

     Stock-based  compensation.  The Company has a long-term incentive plan (the
"Long-Term   Incentive  Plan")  under  which  the  Company  grants   stock-based
compensation.  The Long-Term  Incentive  Plan is described more fully in Note G.
The Company  accounts for stock-based  compensation  granted under the Long-Term
Incentive  Plan  using the  intrinsic  value  method  prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB  25")  and  related  interpretations.  Stock-based  compensation  expenses
associated  with option  grants were not  recognized in the Company's net income
during the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001, as all options granted
under the Long-Term Incentive Plan had exercise prices equal to the market value
of the underlying common stock on the dates of grant.  Stock-based  compensation
expense  associated  with  restricted  stock awards is deferred and amortized to
earnings  ratably over the vesting  periods of the awards.  The following  table
illustrates  the pro forma effect on net income and earnings per share as if the
Company  had applied  the fair value  recognition  provisions  of  Statement  of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation"  to stock-based  compensation  during the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year ended December 31,
                                                               -------------------------------------
                                                                  2003          2002         2001
                                                               ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                              (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
  Net income, as reported...................................   $ 410,592     $  26,713     $  99,996
  Plus: Total stock-based employee compensation expense
    included in net income for all awards, net of tax (a)...       3,447         1,884           -
  Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation
    expense determined under fair value based
    method for all awards, net of tax (a)...................     (11,429)      (11,691)       (6,533)
                                                                --------      --------      --------
  Pro forma net income......................................   $ 402,610     $  16,906     $  93,463
                                                                ========      ========      ========
  Net income per share:
    Basic - as reported.....................................   $    3.50     $     .24     $    1.01
                                                                ========      ========      ========
    Basic - pro forma.......................................   $    3.44     $     .15     $     .95
                                                                ========      ========      ========
    Diluted - as reported...................................   $    3.46     $     .23     $    1.00
                                                                ========      ========      ========
    Diluted - pro forma.....................................   $    3.40     $     .15     $     .94
                                                                ========      ========      ========
<FN>
- -----------
(a)  Total stock-based  employee  compensation expense included in net income is
     net of a tax benefit of $2.0  million  during the year ended  December  31,
     2003. Total stock-based employee  compensation expense determined under the
     fair value based  method for the year ended  December  31, 2003 is net of a
     $4.6 million tax benefit. No tax benefits were recognized for the pro forma
     compensation  expense  amounts  during the years ended December 31, 2002 or
     2001. See Note P for additional  information regarding the Company's income
     taxes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Foreign currency  translation.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency
for all of the Company's  international  operations except Canada.  Accordingly,
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are remeasured
to U.S.  dollars  at the  exchange  rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses  denominated in a foreign  currency are
remeasured  at the average of the exchange  rates that were in effect during the
period  in which  the  revenues  and costs and  expenses  were  recognized.  The
resulting gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency denominated balances
into U.S.  dollars are recorded in other income or other expense,  respectively.
Nonmonetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in a  foreign  currency  are
remeasured at the historic exchange rates that were in effect when the assets or
liabilities were acquired or incurred.



                                       55

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     The  functional  currency  of  the  Company's  Canadian  operations  is the
Canadian dollar. The financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiary
entities are translated to U.S.  dollars as follows:  all assets and liabilities
are  translated  using the exchange rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses are translated using the average of the
exchange  rates that were in effect  during the period in which the revenues and
costs  and  expenses  were  recognized.  The  resulting  gains  or  losses  from
translating   non-U.S.   dollar   denominated   balances  are  recorded  in  the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the period
through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

     The  following  table  presents  the exchange  rates used to translate  the
financial  statements of the Company's Canadian subsidiary in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                December 31,
                                                                       ---------------------------
                                                                         2003      2002      2001
                                                                       -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                                     <C>       <C>       <C>
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets................   .7710     .6362     .6277
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of Operations......   .7161     .6371     .6356
</TABLE>

     Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2002 and
2001 amounts in order to conform with the 2003 presentation.

NOTE C.     Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

     The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values
of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    2003                      2002
                                                          -----------------------    -----------------------
                                                           Carrying       Fair        Carrying       Fair
                                                             Value        Value         Value        Value
                                                          ----------   ----------    ----------   ----------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Derivative contract assets (liabilities):
     Commodity price hedges............................   $ (201,422)  $ (201,422)   $ (108,837)  $ (108,837)
     Unrealized terminated commodity price hedges......   $   (1,490)  $   (1,490)   $      512   $      512
     Btu swap contracts................................   $   (6,856)  $   (6,856)   $  (13,363)  $  (13,363)
     Foreign currency contracts........................   $      -     $      -      $       15   $       15
Financial assets:
     Trading securities................................   $    7,596   $    7,596    $    5,144   $    5,144
     5-1/2% note receivable due 2008...................   $    2,086   $    2,086    $    2,247   $    2,283
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
     Line of credit....................................   $ (160,000)  $ (160,000)   $ (260,000)  $ (260,000)
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005......................   $ (135,239)  $ (141,426)   $ (146,704)  $ (147,318)
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007......................   $ (155,253)  $ (171,188)   $ (161,130)  $ (164,925)
     6-1/2% senior notes due 2008......................   $ (354,497)  $ (378,725)   $ (362,592)  $ (359,205)
     9-5/8% senior notes due 2010......................   $ (350,558)  $ (424,385)   $ (338,197)  $ (406,901)
     7-1/2% senior notes due 2012......................   $ (150,000)  $ (162,990)   $ (150,000)  $ (160,635)
     7-1/5% senior notes due 2028......................   $ (249,914)  $ (270,312)   $ (249,913)  $ (245,025)
</TABLE>

     Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other  current  assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.



                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     Commodity price swap and collar contracts,  interest rate swaps and foreign
currency  swap  contracts.  The fair  value of  commodity  price swap and collar
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are estimated from
quotes  provided  by  the  counterparties  to  these  derivative  contracts  and
represent the estimated  amounts that the Company would expect to receive or pay
to settle the derivative contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the
Company  terminated  all of its  interest  rate swap  contracts  and the foreign
currency  contracts  matured.  See  Note J for a  description  of each of  these
derivatives,  including  whether the  derivative  contract  qualifies  for hedge
accounting treatment or is considered a speculative derivative contract.

     Financial assets. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had an investment in
bonds that were  classified as trading  securities  and a note  receivable.  The
Company  divested the bonds  during  January  2003.  The fair value of the 5-1/2
percent note  receivable  was  determined  based on  underlying  market rates of
interest.

     Long-term  debt. The carrying  amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's  corporate  credit  facility  approximates  fair value  because  these
instruments  bear interest at variable market rates.  The fair values of each of
the senior note issuances were determined based on quoted market prices for each
of the issues.  See Note E for  additional  information  regarding the Company's
long-term debt.

NOTE D.     Acquisitions

     Falcon  acquisitions.  During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
purchased,  through two transactions,  an additional 30 percent working interest
in the Falcon field  development and a 25 percent working interest in associated
acreage in the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico for a combined  purchase price of $61.1
million.  As a result of these  transactions,  the  Company  owned a 75  percent
working  interest  in and  operated  the Falcon  field  development  and related
exploration  blocks at  December  31,  2002.  On March  28,  2003,  the  Company
purchased the remaining 25 percent working  interest that it did not already own
in the Falcon field,  the Harrier field and surrounding  satellite  prospects in
the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico for $120.4  million,  including  $114.1 million of
cash, $1.7 million of asset retirement  obligations  assumed and $4.6 million of
closing adjustments.

     West Panhandle  acquisitions.  During July 2002, the Company  completed the
purchase  of the  remaining  23 percent of the rights  that the  Company did not
already own in its core area West  Panhandle gas field,  100 percent of the West
Panhandle  reserves  attributable to field fuel, 100 percent of the related West
Panhandle  field  gathering  system and ten  blocks  surrounding  the  Company's
deepwater   Gulf  of  Mexico  Falcon   discovery.   In  connection   with  these
transactions,  the  Company  recorded  $100.4  million  to  proved  oil  and gas
properties,  $3.8 million to unproved oil and gas properties and $1.9 million to
assets held for resale;  retired a capital cost  obligation  for $60.8  million;
settled  a  $20.9   million  gas   balancing   receivable;   assumed  trade  and
environmental  obligations amounting to $5.8 million in the aggregate;  and paid
$140.2 million of cash. The capital cost  obligation  retired by the Company for
$60.8 million  represented  an obligation  for West  Panhandle gas field capital
additions that was not able to be prepaid and bore interest at an annual rate of
20 percent. The portion of the purchase price allocated to the retirement of the
capital cost  obligation  was based on a discounted  cash flow analysis  using a
market  discount  rate for  obligations  with  similar  terms.  The capital cost
obligation had a carrying  value of $45.2 million,  resulting in a loss of $15.6
million from the early extinguishment of this obligation.

     Affiliated partnership mergers.  During 2001, the limited partners of 42 of
the Company's affiliated  partnerships  approved an agreement and plan of merger
("Plan of Merger")  among the  Company,  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc.
("Pioneer USA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and the partnerships.
The Plan of Merger was  accounted  for as a purchase  business  combination.  In
consideration for the  partnerships'  net assets,  the limited partners received
5.7 million shares of the Company's  common stock valued at $18.35 per share. In
connection with this  transaction,  the Company recorded $92.9 million to proved
oil and gas  properties,  $13.6  million  to cash and $.3  million  to other net
assets.  The cash  acquired from the  partnerships,  net of $2.5 million of cash
transaction costs,  is included in  "cash acquired in acquisitions,  net of fees


                                       57

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


paid" in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement  of Cash  Flows for the year
ended  December  31,  2001.  Except  for the  cash  acquired,  this  transaction
represents  a noncash  investing  activity of the Company that was funded by the
issuance of common stock.

     Other acquisitions.  During 2003, in addition to the incremental 25 percent
working interest acquired in the Falcon area, the Company spent $30.6 million to
acquire producing  properties in the Spraberry field and unproved  properties in
Alaska,  the Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina,  Canada and Tunisia.  During  2002,  in
addition to the Falcon and West Panhandle  acquisitions  referred to above,  the
Company spent $25.5 million to acquire additional unproved acreage in the United
States,  including 34 Gulf of Mexico shelf blocks,  six deepwater Gulf of Mexico
blocks,  a 70 percent  working  interest in ten state  leases on Alaska's  North
Slope and property  interests in other areas of the United  States.  Also during
2002, the Company acquired unproved and proved oil and gas property interests in
Canada for $2.3  million  and $.5  million,  respectively,  and $1.8  million of
additional  unproved  property  interests in Tunisia.  During 2001,  the Company
spent  $77.9  million to acquire  additional  working  interests  in the Gulf of
Mexico Aconcagua discovery,  the related Canyon Express gathering system and the
Devils Tower project;  21 deepwater Gulf of Mexico blocks;  250,000 acres in the
Anticlinal Campamento,  Dos Hermanas and La Calera areas of the Neuquen Basin in
Argentina; and a 30 percent interest in the Anaguid permit in the Ghadames basin
onshore Southern Tunisia.

NOTE E.     Long-term Debt

     Long-term  debt,  including the effects of fair value hedges and discounts,
consisted of the following  components  at December 31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               December 31,
                                                      ----------------------------
                                                         2003             2002
                                                      -----------      -----------
                                                             (in thousands)

<S>                                                   <C>              <C>
Lines of credit...................................    $   160,000      $   260,000
8-7/8% senior notes due 2005......................        135,239          146,704
8-1/4% senior notes due 2007......................        155,253          161,130
6-1/2% senior notes due 2008......................        354,497          362,592
9-5/8% senior notes due 2010......................        350,558          338,197
7-1/2% senior notes due 2012......................        150,000          150,000
7-1/5% senior notes due 2028......................        249,914          249,913
                                                       ----------       ----------
     Total long-term debt.........................    $ 1,555,461      $ 1,668,536
                                                       ==========       ==========
</TABLE>

     Maturities  of  long-term  debt at  December  31,  2003 are as follows  (in
thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>          <C>                                                   <C>
             2004..............................................    $      -
             2005..............................................    $  135,239
             2006..............................................    $      -
             2007..............................................    $  155,253
             2008..............................................    $  514,497
             Thereafter........................................    $  750,472
</TABLE>

     Lines of credit.  During  December  2003,  the Company  entered  into a new
five-year  unsecured revolving credit agreement (the "New Credit Facility") that
matures in December  2008. The New Credit  Facility  replaced the Company's $575
million  revolving  credit  facility  (the "Prior Credit  Facility")  that had a
scheduled  maturity in March 2005. The terms of the New Credit Facility  provide
for initial  aggregate  loan  commitments  of $700 million from a syndication of
participating  banks (the "Lenders").  Aggregate loan commitments  under the New
Credit Facility may be increased to a maximum  aggregate amount of $1 billion if
the Lenders increase their loan commitments or loan commitments of new financial
institutions are added to the New Credit Facility.


                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



     Borrowings  under the New Credit  Facility  may be in the form of revolving
loans or swing line loans. Aggregate outstanding swing line loans may not exceed
$80 million. Revolving loans issued under the New Credit Facility bear interest,
at the option of the Company,  based on (a) a rate per annum equal to the higher
of the prime  rate  announced  from  time to time by  JPMorgan  Chase  Bank (4.0
percent per annum at December 31, 2003) or the weighted  average of the rates on
overnight Federal funds  transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System
during the last  preceding  business  day plus 50 basis  point (1.5  percent per
annum at December 31, 2003) or (b) a base Eurodollar rate,  substantially  equal
to LIBOR (1.2  percent  per annum at  December  31,  2003),  plus a margin  (the
"Applicable  Margin") that is based on a grid of the Company's  debt rating (125
basis points per annum at December 31, 2003).  Swing line loans bear interest at
a rate  per  annum  equal  to the  "ASK"  rate for  Federal  funds  periodically
published by the Dow Jones Market Service.  As of December 31, 2003, the Company
had $160 million of Eurodollar  rate revolving loans  outstanding  under the New
Credit Facility.

     Advances under the Prior Credit  Facility bore  interest,  at the option of
the  Company,  based  on (a) a base  rate  equal  to the  higher  of the Bank of
America,  N.A.  prime rate or a rate per annum based on the weighted  average of
the rates on overnight  Federal funds  transactions  with members of the Federal
Reserve System,  plus 50 basis points;  plus a eurodollar  margin less 125 basis
points, (b) a Eurodollar rate,  substantially  equal to LIBOR, plus a eurodollar
margin,  or (c) a fixed rate (for aggregate  advances not exceeding $50 million)
as quoted by the banks pursuant to a request by the Company.

     The New  Credit  Facility  imposes  certain  restrictive  covenants  on the
Company,  including the maintenance of a ratio of the Company's  earnings before
gain or loss on the  disposition  of assets,  interest  expense,  income  taxes,
depreciation,  depletion and amortization expense,  exploration and abandonments
expense and other noncash charges and expenses to consolidated  interest expense
of at  least  3.5  to  1.0;  maintenance  of a  ratio  of  total  debt  to  book
capitalization  less  intangible  assets  (other  than  intangible  oil  and gas
assets),  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income and  certain  noncash  asset
write-downs not to exceed .60 to 1.0; and, maintenance of an annual ratio of the
net present value of the  Company's  oil and gas  properties to total debt of at
least 1.25 to 1.00 until the Company has an investment grade rating. The Company
was in compliance with all of its debt covenants as of December 31, 2003.

     As of December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company had $47.6  million and $45.4
million of undrawn  letters of credit,  respectively,  of which $28.8 million on
December  31,  2003  and  $27.2  million  on  December  31,  2002  were  undrawn
commitments   under  the  New  Credit   Facility  and  Prior  Credit   Facility,
respectively. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had unused borrowing
capacity of $511.2 million and $287.8 million under the New Credit  Facility and
Prior Credit Facility, respectively.

     Senior notes. The Company's senior notes are general unsecured  obligations
ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness
of the  Company  and are senior in right of payment to all  existing  and future
subordinated  indebtedness of the Company. The Company is a holding company that
conducts all of its operations through  subsidiaries;  consequently,  the senior
notes are  structurally  subordinated  to all  obligations of its  subsidiaries.
Interest on the Company's senior notes is payable semi-annually. Pioneer USA has
fully and unconditionally guaranteed the senior note issuances. See Note S for a
discussion  of  Pioneer  USA  debt   guarantees  and   Consolidating   Financial
Statements.

     During  April 2002,  the Company  issued  $150.0  million of 7-1/2  percent
senior notes due April 15, 2012 (the "7-1/2  percent senior  notes").  The 7-1/2
percent  senior  notes  were  issued at a price  equal to 100  percent  of their
principal amount and resulted in net proceeds to the Company, after underwriting
discounts,  commissions  and  costs of  issuance,  of  $146.7  million.  The net
proceeds from the issuance of the 7-1/2 percent senior notes were used to reduce
outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility. The 7-1/2 percent senior
notes and 9-5/8 percent  senior notes  contain  various  restrictive  covenants,
including restrictions on the incurrence of additional  indebtedness and certain



                                       59

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


payments defined within the associated indenture.  The Company was in compliance
with all of its senior note covenants as of December 31, 2003.

     As of  December  31, 2003 and 2002,  the  aggregate  carrying  value of the
Company's  8-7/8,  8-1/4,  6-1/2 and 9-5/8 percent  senior notes  included $27.4
million  and  $35.7  million,   respectively,   of  incremental  carrying  value
attributable   to  the  unamortized  net  deferred  hedge  gains  realized  from
terminated  fair  value  hedge  interest  rate  swap  contracts.  See Note J for
additional  information regarding terminated fair value hedge interest rate swap
contracts.

     Early extinguishment of debt and capital cost obligation.  During 2003, the
Company  repurchased  $5.1 million of its 8-7/8 percent  senior notes and repaid
the  Prior  Credit  Facility  prior  to  its  scheduled  maturity.  The  Company
recognized  $1.5  million  of  charges  to  other  expense  associated  with the
aforementioned debt extinguishments.

     During 2002,  the Company  repurchased  $47.1  million of the 9-5/8 percent
senior notes, $13.9 million of the 8-7/8 percent senior notes and repaid a $45.2
million  capital  cost  obligation.  The  Company  recognized  a charge to other
expense of $22.3 million associated with these debt extinguishments.

     During 2001,  the Company  redeemed the  remaining  $22.5 million of 11-5/8
percent  senior  subordinated  discount notes and $6.8 million of 10-5/8 percent
senior subordinated notes.  Additionally,  the Company repurchased $38.7 million
of the 9-5/8 percent senior notes.  Associated with these debt  extinguishments,
the Company recognized a charge to other expense of $3.8 million.

     See Note B for a discussion  of the  classification  of gains and losses on
the early  extinguishment  of debt after the  adoption of SFAS 145 on January 1,
2003.

     Interest  expense.  The following amounts have been incurred and charged to
interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                      -----------------------------------
                                                                        2003         2002          2001
                                                                      ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
     Cash payments for interest...................................    $ 117,870    $ 113,827    $ 129,992
     Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans.....        2,873        5,488        7,937
     Amortization of deferred hedge gains (see Note J)............      (26,114)     (14,108)      (2,750)
     Amortization of capitalized loan fees........................        2,528        2,436        2,252
     Kansas ad valorem tax (see Note I)...........................          103          375        1,250
     Net change in accruals.......................................         (424)          48         (732)
                                                                       --------     --------     --------
       Interest incurred..........................................       96,836      108,066      137,949
       Less interest capitalized..................................       (5,448)     (12,251)      (5,991)
                                                                       --------     --------     --------
          Total interest expense..................................    $  91,388    $  95,815    $ 131,958
                                                                       ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

NOTE F.     Related Party Transactions

     Activities  with  affiliated  partnerships.  Prior  to 1992,  the  Company,
through its wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  sponsored 44 drilling  partnerships and
three public  income  partnerships,  all of which were formed  primarily for the
purpose of drilling  and  completing  wells or acquiring  producing  properties.
During 2001, the Company completed the merger of 42 of the limited  partnerships
into Pioneer USA. See Note D for additional information regarding the mergers.

     The  Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as  operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well



                                       60

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

     The  activities  with  affiliated   partnerships  are  summarized  for  the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        2003      2002      2001
                                                                       ------    ------    ------
                                                                             (in thousands)
<S>                                                                    <C>       <C>       <C>
     Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges
        in accordance with standard industry operating
        agreements................................................     $1,473    $1,495    $9,281
     Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses.........     $  148    $  127    $1,265
</TABLE>

NOTE G.     Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

     Deferred  compensation  retirement  plan. In August 1997, the  Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement
plan for the officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and
key employee is allowed to  contribute up to 25 percent of their base salary and
100  percent  of their  annual  bonus.  The  Company  will  provide  a  matching
contribution  of 100 percent of the  officer's and key  employee's  contribution
limited to the first 10 percent of the  officer's  base salary and eight percent
of the key employee's base salary.  The Company's  matching  contribution  vests
immediately.  A trust fund has been established by the Company to accumulate the
contributions   made  under  this  retirement   plan.  The  Company's   matching
contributions were $851 thousand,  $805 thousand and $652 thousand for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     401(k) plan. The Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA, Inc.  401(k) and Matching
Plan (the "401(k) Plan") is a defined  contribution  plan established  under the
Internal  Revenue  Code Section 401. The 401(k) Plan was formed by the merger of
the Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan and the Pioneer  Natural
Resources USA, Inc.  Matching Plan on January 1, 2002. All regular full-time and
part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k)
Plan on the first day of the month  following  their date of hire.  Participants
may  contribute  an amount of not less than two percent nor more than 30 percent
of their annual salary into the 401(k) Plan. Matching  contributions are made to
the 401(k)  Plan in cash by Pioneer  USA in  amounts  equal to 200  percent of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each  participant's  account is credited with the  participant's  contributions,
their Matching  Contributions  and  allocations  of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.
Participants  are fully  vested in their  account  balances  except for Matching
Contributions and their proportionate share of 401(k) Plan earnings attributable
to Matching  Contributions,  which  proportionately vest over a four year period
that begins with the participant's date of hire. During the years ended December
31, 2003,  2002 and 2001, the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $4.5
million,  $4.1 million and $3.4 million,  respectively,  as a result of Matching
Contributions.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

     In August 1997, the Company's  stockholders  approved a Long-Term Incentive
Plan which  provides for the  granting of incentive  awards in the form of stock
options,  stock appreciation  rights,  performance units and restricted stock to
directors,  officers and employees of the Company.  The Long-Term Incentive Plan
provides for the issuance of a maximum number of shares of common stock equal to
10 percent of the total number of shares of common stock equivalents outstanding
less the total number of shares of common stock  subject to  outstanding  awards
under any stock-  based plan for the  directors,  officers or  employees  of the
Company.


                                       61

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     The following  table  calculates the number of shares or options  available
for grant under the Company's  Long- Term Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2003
and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                December 31,
                                                                         --------------------------
                                                                             2003           2002
                                                                         -----------    -----------
<S>                                                                       <C>            <C>
  Shares outstanding....................................................  119,287,772    117,252,538
  Outstanding options exercisable or exercisable within 60 days.........    3,279,024      5,024,173
                                                                          -----------    -----------
                                                                          122,566,796    122,276,711
                                                                          ===========    ===========
  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.....   12,256,680     12,227,671
  Less:  Outstanding awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan..........   (5,534,037)    (7,432,414)
         Outstanding options under predecessor incentive plans..........     (417,052)      (488,671)
                                                                          -----------    -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant.............................    6,305,591      4,306,586
                                                                          ===========    ===========
</TABLE>

     Stock  option  awards.  The Company  has a program of awarding  semi-annual
stock options to its officers and employees and gives its non-employee directors
a choice to receive (i) 100 percent  restricted  stock,  (ii) 100 percent  stock
options,  (iii) 100 percent cash, or (iv) a combination  of 50/50 of any two, as
their annual  compensation.  This program provides for stock option awards at an
exercise price based upon the closing sales price of the Company's  common stock
on the day prior to the date of grant. Employee stock option awards vest over an
18 month or three year  schedule  and provide a five year  exercise  period from
each vesting date.  Non-employee  directors'  stock  options vest  quarterly and
provide for a five year  exercise  period from each  vesting  date.  The Company
granted 1,353,988, 1,643,212 and 1,627,071 options under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     Restricted  stock  awards.  During the year ended  December 31,  2003,  the
Company  issued  77,625  restricted  shares of the Company's  common stock.  The
restricted  share awards were issued as compensation to directors,  officers and
key employees of the Company.  The restricted share awards included 4,425 shares
that were granted to directors of the Company on May 14, 2003.  Director  awards
vest on a  quarterly  prorata  basis  during  the year ended May 14,  2004.  The
remaining 73,200 restricted shares were awarded to officers and key employees of
the Company.  Of the shares  awarded,  9,500 shares vest on January 26, 2006 and
the remaining 63,700 shares vest on September 30, 2006.

     During the year  ended  December  31,  2002,  the  Company  issued  654,445
restricted  shares of the Company's  common stock.  The restricted  share awards
were issued as  compensation  to  directors,  officers and key  employees of the
Company. The restricted share awards included 18,545 shares that were granted to
directors  of the  Company on May 13,  2002.  Director  awards for 3,302  shares
vested on a  quarterly  prorata  basis  during the year  ended May 13,  2003 and
director  awards for 15,243 shares vest on May 13, 2005.  The remaining  635,900
restricted  shares were awarded to officers and key  employees of the Company on
August 12, 2002 and vest on August 12, 2005.

     The  Company   recorded   $1.1  million  and  $16.2   million  of  deferred
compensation associated with restricted stock awards in the stockholders' equity
section of the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets during the years ended
December  31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.  Such  amounts  will be amortized to
compensation  expense over the vesting  periods of the awards.  During the years
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,  amortization  of the restricted  stock awards
increased the Company's  compensation  expense by $5.4 million and $1.9 million,
respectively.



                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     The following  table reflects the outstanding  restricted  stock awards and
activity related thereto for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended               Year Ended
                                                           December 31, 2003        December 31, 2002
                                                         ---------------------    ---------------------
                                                                      Weighted                 Weighted
                                                          Number       Average     Number       Average
                                                         of Shares     Price      of Shares      Price
                                                         ---------    --------    ---------    --------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
   Restricted Stock Awards:
     Restricted shares outstanding at beginning
       of year........................................     652,793    $  24.72         -       $    -
     Shares granted...................................      77,625    $  25.39     654,445     $  24.72
     Shares forfeited.................................     (36,500)   $  24.72         -       $    -
     Lapse of restrictions............................     (16,945)   $  25.59      (1,652)    $  24.60
                                                          --------                 -------
     Restricted shares outstanding at end of year.....     676,973    $  24.79     652,793     $  24.72
                                                          ========                 =======
</TABLE>

     There were no restricted  stock awards to directors or employees during the
year ended December 31, 2001.

     Other stock based plans. Prior to the formation of the Company in 1997, the
Company's  predecessor  companies  had long-term  incentive  plans in place that
allowed the  predecessor  companies  to grant  incentive  awards  similar to the
provisions of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon formation of the Company,  all
awards under these plans were assumed by the Company with the provision  that no
additional awards be granted under the predecessor plans.

     SFAS  123   disclosures.   The   Company   applies   APB  25  and   related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the Company's net income and net income per share would have been
less than the reported  amounts.  See Note B for a comparison  of net income and
net income per share as reported  and as adjusted  for the pro forma  effects of
determining compensation expense in accordance with SFAS 123.

     Under SFAS 123,  the fair value of each stock  option grant is estimated on
the date of grant  using  the  Black-  Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following  weighted  average  assumptions used for grants during the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                              ---------------------------
                                                2003      2002      2001
                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                             <C>       <C>       <C>
       Risk-free interest rate.............     3.06%     2.80%     4.13%
       Expected life.......................   5 years   5 years   5 years
       Expected volatility.................       36%       45%       49%
       Expected dividend yield.............        -         -         -

</TABLE>



                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001, and changes during the years then ended, are presented below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Year Ended              Year Ended              Year Ended
                                         December 31, 2003       December 31, 2002       December 31, 2001
                                       ---------------------   ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                    Weighted                Weighted                Weighted
                                         Number      Average      Number     Average    Number      Average
                                       of Shares     Price      of Shares    Price     of Shares     Price
                                       ----------   --------   ----------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding, beginning of year..      7,268,292   $  19.60    6,926,071   $  18.16    6,510,559   $  18.10
    Options granted...............      1,353,988   $  24.84    1,643,212   $  21.14    1,627,071   $  18.29
    Options forfeited.............     (1,286,370)  $  29.22     (154,717)  $  26.27     (566,189)  $  25.83
    Options exercised.............     (2,061,794)  $  15.68   (1,146,274)  $  12.19     (645,370)  $  11.14
                                       ----------              ----------              ----------
  Outstanding, end of year........      5,274,116   $  20.13    7,268,292   $  19.60    6,926,071   $  18.16
                                       ==========              ==========              ==========
  Exercisable at end of year......      2,581,256   $  17.56    4,269,659   $  20.15    4,005,762   $  20.82
                                       ==========              ==========              ==========
Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year.........     $     8.95              $     8.87              $     8.65
                                        =========               =========               =========
</TABLE>

     The  following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock
options outstanding and options exercisable at December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    Options Outstanding                           Options Exercisable
                  -----------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------
                       Number         Weighted Average     Weighted                               Weighted
   Range of        Outstanding at        Remaining          Average        Number Exercisable        Average
Exercise Prices   December 31, 2003   Contractual Life   Exercise Price   at December 31, 2003   Exercise Price
- ---------------   -----------------   ----------------   --------------   --------------------   --------------
<S>      <C>             <C>               <C>               <C>                    <C>              <C>
   $   5-11              432,765           2.8 years         $   8.70               432,765          $   8.70
   $  12-18            2,343,782           4.3 years         $  17.10             1,431,111          $  16.34
   $  19-26            2,327,499           5.4 years         $  24.55               547,310          $  23.72
   $  27-30              139,358           1.6 years         $  28.44               139,358          $  28.44
   $  31-43               30,712           3.1 years         $  40.06                30,712          $  40.06
                     -----------                                                -----------
                       5,274,116                                                  2,581,256
                     ===========                                                ===========
</TABLE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     The Company has an Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan (the "ESPP") that allows
eligible  employees  to  annually  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock  at a
discounted price. Officers of the Company are not eligible to participate in the
ESPP.  Contributions  to the ESPP are limited to 15 percent of an employee's pay
(subject  to  certain  ESPP  limits)  during  the nine  month  offering  period.
Participants in the ESPP purchase the Company's  common stock at a price that is
15 percent below the closing sales price of the Company's common stock on either
the first day or the last day of each offering period,  whichever  closing sales
price is lower.

Postretirement Benefit Obligations

     As of December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company had recorded  $15.6  million
and $19.7 million,  respectively, of unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit
obligations in the Company's  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets.  These
obligations  are  comprised  of five plans of which four  relate to  predecessor
entities that the Company acquired in prior years.  These plans had no assets as
of December 31, 2003 or 2002.  Other than the  Company's  retirement  plan,  the
participants of these plans are not current employees of the Company.



                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     The  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligations  pertaining to these
plans were determined by independent actuaries for four plans representing $11.2
million  of  unfunded  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligations  as  of
December 31, 2003 and by the Company for one plan  representing  $4.4 million of
unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligations as of December 31, 2003.
Interest  costs at an annual  rate of six percent of the  periodic  undiscounted
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations were employed in the valuations
of the benefit  obligations.  Certain of the  aforementioned  plans  provide for
medical and dental cost  subsidies for plan  participants.  Annual  medical cost
escalation  trends of 12 percent in 2004,  declining to five percent in 2011 and
thereafter,  and annual  dental cost  escalation  trends of 7.5 percent in 2004,
declining to five percent in 2009 and thereafter,  were employed to estimate the
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations associated with the medical and
dental cost subsidies.

     The  following  table   reconciles   changes  in  the  Company's   unfunded
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations during the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                                      --------------------------------
                                                                        2003        2002        2001
                                                                      --------    --------    --------
                                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
     Beginning accumulated postretirement benefit obligations.....    $ 19,743    $ 19,750    $ 20,064
       Benefit payments...........................................      (1,472)     (1,702)     (2,009)
       Service costs..............................................         205         205         205
       Net actuarial gains........................................      (4,410)        -           -
       Accretion of discounts.....................................       1,490       1,490       1,490
                                                                       -------     -------     -------
     Ending accumulated postretirement benefit obligations........    $ 15,556    $ 19,743    $ 19,750
                                                                       =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>

     Estimated  benefit payments and service costs associated with the plans for
the year ended December 31, 2004 are $1.4 million and $.3 million, respectively.

NOTE H.     Issuance of Common Stock

     During April 2002, the Company  completed a public offering of 11.5 million
shares of its  common  stock at $21.50  per  share.  Associated  therewith,  the
Company  received  $236.0  million of net proceeds after the payment of issuance
costs.  The Company used the net proceeds  from the public  offering to fund the
2002  acquisition of Falcon assets and associated  acreage in the deepwater Gulf
of  Mexico  and the  West  Panhandle  gas  field  acquisitions.  See  Note D for
information regarding these acquisitions.

NOTE I.     Commitments and Contingencies

     Severance  agreements.  The Company has entered into  severance  agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries and bonuses for the Company's  officers are set by the Company's  board
of directors for the parent  company  officers and by the  Company's  management
committee for subsidiary company officers and key employees. The Company's board
of directors and management  committee can grant increases or reductions to base
salary at their  discretion.  The current annual salaries for the parent company
officers,  the subsidiary  company officers and key employees covered under such
agreements total approximately $19.9 million.

     Indemnifications.  The Company has indemnified its directors and certain of
its officers,  employees  and agents with respect to claims and damages  arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

     Legal actions.  The Company is party to various legal actions incidental to
its business,  including,  but not limited to, the proceedings  described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse


                                       65

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-  quarter  basis and will  adjust its
litigation  reserves  as  appropriate  to  reflect  the then  current  status of
litigation.

     Alford.  The Company is party to a 1993 class action  lawsuit  filed in the
26th Judicial District Court of Stevens County, Kansas by two classes of royalty
owners,  one for  each  of the  Company's  gathering  systems  connected  to the
Company's Satanta gas plant. The case was relatively inactive for several years.
In early 2000,  the plaintiffs  amended their  pleadings and it now contains two
material claims.  First, the plaintiffs assert that they were improperly charged
expenses  (primarily field compression),  which are a "cost of production",  and
for which the plaintiffs,  as royalty owners,  are not responsible.  Second, the
plaintiffs  claim they are  entitled  to 100  percent of the value of the helium
extracted at the Company's  Satanta gas plant. If the plaintiffs were to prevail
on the above two claims in their  entirety,  it is possible  that the  Company's
liability  (both  for  periods  covered  by the  lawsuit  and from the last date
covered by the lawsuit to the present - because  the  deductions  continue to be
taken and the plaintiffs  continue to be paid for a royalty share of the helium)
could reach $65.0  million,  plus  prejudgment  interest.  However,  the Company
believes  it has  valid  defenses  to  the  plaintiffs'  claims,  has  paid  the
plaintiffs  properly  under  their  respective  oil and  gas  leases  and  other
agreements, and intends to vigorously defend itself.

     The  Company  does not  believe  the costs it has  deducted  are a "cost of
production".  The costs being  deducted are post  production  costs  incurred to
transport the gas to the Company's  Satanta gas plant for processing,  where the
valuable  hydrocarbon  liquids  and  helium  are  extracted  from the  gas.  The
plaintiffs  benefit from such extractions and the Company believes that charging
the  plaintiffs  with  their  proportionate  share  of such  transportation  and
processing  expenses  is  consistent  with  Kansas  law and  with  the  parties'
agreements.

     The Company has also vigorously  defended against plaintiffs' claims to 100
percent of the value of the helium  extracted,  and believes  that in accordance
with  applicable  law, it has  properly  accounted to the  plaintiffs  for their
fractional  royalty share of the helium under the specified  royalty  clauses of
the respective oil and gas leases.

     The  factual  evidence  in the case  was  presented  to the  26th  Judicial
District Court without a jury in December 2001. Oral arguments were heard by the
court in April 2002,  and  although  the court has not yet entered a judgment or
findings,  it could do so at any time. The Company strongly denies the existence
of any material  underpayment to the plaintiffs and believes it presented strong
evidence at trial to support its positions. Although the amount of any resulting
liability  could  have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of
operations  for the  quarterly  reporting  period  in which  such  liability  is
recorded,  the  Company  does not  expect  that any such  liability  will have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated  financial position as a whole or on
its liquidity, capital resources or future annual results of operations.

     Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows a
"severance,  production  or similar"  tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the maximum  lawful price for gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission ("FERC") ruling that Kansas ad valorem tax was such a tax, one of the
Company's  predecessor  entities collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition
to the otherwise  maximum  lawful  price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the
United  States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia  ("D.C.  Circuit"),
which held in June 1988 that the FERC failed to provide a  reasonable  basis for
its findings and remanded the case to the FERC for further consideration.

     On December 1, 1993,  the FERC issued an order  reversing its prior ruling,
but limited the effect of its decision to Kansas ad valorem taxes for sales made
on or after June 28, 1988. The FERC clarified the effective date of its decision
by an order dated May 18, 1994.  The order  clarified  that the  effective  date
applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28, 1988,  not sales made on or after
that date.  Numerous  parties  filed  appeals  on the FERC's  action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various gas producers challenged the FERC's orders on two grounds: (1)
that  the   Kansas  ad  valorem  tax,  properly  understood,  does  qualify  for


                                       66

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


reimbursement  under the NGPA; and (2) the FERC's ruling  should,  in any event,
have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties challenged the FERC's orders on
the grounds that the FERC's  ruling  should have been applied  retroactively  to
December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment of the NGPA and  producers  should
have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

     The D.C.  Circuit  issued its decision on August 2, 1996,  which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production since October 4, 1983, as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were denied on November 6, 1996.  Various gas producers  subsequently
filed a petition  for writ of  certiori  with the United  States  Supreme  Court
seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills rendered on or
after  June 28,  1988 (the  effective  date  originally  selected  by the FERC).
Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori  seeking to
impose refund  liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were denied on
May 12, 1997.

     The Company and other  producers  filed  petitions for adjustment  with the
FERC on June 24, 1997. The Company was seeking a waiver or set-off from the FERC
with respect to that  portion of the refund  associated  with (i)  nonrecoupable
royalties,  (ii)  nonrecoupable  Kansas  property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher  prices  collected and (iii)  interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file claims on refunds sought from producers and refund claims  totaling
approximately $30.2 million were made against the Company.  Through December 31,
2003, the Company has settled $21.6 million of the original claim amounts. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company had on deposit  $10.7 million and $10.6
million, respectively,  including accrued interest, in an escrow account and had
corresponding  obligations  for the  remaining  claim  recorded in other current
liabilities in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  On December 1,
2003, an administrative  law judge issued a Partial Initial Decision denying the
Company's  request to allow any waiver or set-off  from the  refunds and stating
that the Company must pay the FERC interest rate on the refund claims instead of
the escrow  interest  rate.  The Company has accrued an additional  $1.5 million
obligation  for the  difference  between the escrow  interest  rate and the FERC
interest rate,  although the Company intends to vigorously  appeal the decision.
The Company believes that the accrued  obligations will be sufficient to resolve
the remaining claims.

     Lease  agreements.  The  Company  leases  offshore  production  facilities,
equipment and office facilities under  noncancellable  operating leases.  Rental
expenses associated with these operating leases for the years ended December 31,
2003,  2002 and 2001 were  approximately  $15.5  million,  $6.7 million and $6.6
million,  respectively.  Future minimum lease commitments  under  noncancellable
operating leases at December 31, 2003 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>    <C>                                                       <C>
       2004..................................................    $  35,515
       2005..................................................    $  43,442
       2006..................................................    $  38,227
       2007..................................................    $  27,612
       2008..................................................    $  17,338
       Thereafter............................................    $  24,174
</TABLE>

     Drilling  commitments.  The Company  periodically  enters into  contractual
arrangements under which the Company is committed to expend funds to drill wells
in the future.  The Company also enters into  agreements to secure  drilling rig
services  which require the Company to make future  minimum  payments to the rig
operators. The Company records drilling commitments in the periods in which well
capital is expended or rig services are provided.

     Transportation  agreements.  The Company's wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary
is a party to pipeline  transportation service agreements,  with remaining terms
of  approximately  12 years,  whereby it has  committed to transport a specified
volume of gas each year from Canada to a point in Chicago.  Such gas volumes are
comprised of a  significant  portion of the Company's  Canadian net  production,
augmented  with  certain  volumes  purchased at  market  prices in  Canada.  The


                                       67

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


committed  volumes to be transported under the pipeline  transportation  service
agreements are  approximately  78 MMcf of gas per day during 2004 and decline to
approximately  75 MMcf of gas per day by the end of the commitment term. The net
gas  marketing  gains or losses  resulting  from  purchasing  third party gas in
Canada and selling it in Chicago are recorded as other  income or other  expense
in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Associated with these
agreements,  the Company recognized $922 thousand, $2.6 million and $9.9 million
of gas marketing  losses in other  expenses  during the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

NOTE J.     Derivative Financial Instruments

Hedge Derivatives

     The Company  utilizes  derivative  instruments to manage  commodity  price,
interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.

     Fair value  hedges.  The  Company  monitors  the debt  capital  markets and
interest  rate  trends to  identify  opportunities  to enter into and  terminate
interest rate swap contracts with the objective of minimizing  costs of capital.
During the three year period ending December 31, 2003, the Company, from time to
time,  entered into interest rate swap  contracts to hedge a portion of the fair
value of its senior notes.  The terms of the interest rate swap  contracts  were
for notional amounts that matched the scheduled maturity of the bonds,  required
the  counterparties to pay the Company a fixed annual interest rate equal to the
stated bond coupon rates on the notional amounts and required the Company to pay
the counterparties  variable annual interest rates on the notional amounts equal
to the periodic six-month LIBOR plus a weighted average margin.

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  the  Company
recognized  interest savings associated with its interest rate swap contracts of
$29.3 million,  $25.3 million and $7.3 million,  respectively.  During the years
ended  December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001, the Company  terminated  interest rate
swap contracts for cash proceeds,  including accrued interest, of $21.5 million,
$36.3 million and $23.3 million,  respectively. The proceeds attributable to the
fair value of the remaining terms of the terminated  contracts amounted to $18.3
million,  $32.0  million and $21.2  million and are included in  "Proceeds  from
disposition of assets" in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
during the years ended  December 31, 2003,  2002 and 2001,  respectively.  As of
December  31,  2003 and  2002,  the  Company  was not a party to any fair  value
hedges.

     As of December 31, 2003, the carrying value of the Company's long-term debt
in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  included  $27.4  million of
incremental  carrying value  attributable  to the unamortized net deferred hedge
gains realized from  terminated  fair value hedge interest rate swap  contracts.
The  amortization  of these net  deferred  hedge  gains  reduced  the  Company's
reported  interest  expense by $26.1  million,  $14.1  million and $2.8  million
during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     The following  table sets forth the scheduled  amortization of net deferred
hedge gains and losses on  terminated  fair value hedges as of December 31, 2003
that will be recognized as increases in the case of losses,  or decreases in the
case of gains, to the Company's future interest expense:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              First     Second      Third     Fourth      Yearly
                                             Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter     Total
                                             -------    -------    -------    -------    --------
                                                                (in thousands)
<S>   <C>                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
      2004 net hedge gain amortization..     $ 7,308    $ 6,116    $ 5,489    $ 4,555    $ 23,468
      2005 net hedge gain amortization..     $ 4,264    $ 2,816    $ 2,313    $ 1,575      10,968
      Remaining net losses to be
        amortized through 2010..........                                                   (7,062)
                                                                                          -------
                                                                                         $ 27,374
                                                                                          =======
</TABLE>



                                       68

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



     The terms of the fair value hedges  described above  perfectly  matched the
terms of the underlying  senior notes. The Company did not exclude any component
of the derivatives' gains or losses from the measurement of hedge effectiveness.

     Cash flow hedges.  The Company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts
to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on the  commodities  the  Company
produces and sells,  (ii) support the  Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and
expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain
capital projects.  The Company has also utilized interest rate swap contracts to
reduce the effect of interest rate  volatility  on the  Company's  variable rate
line of credit  indebtedness and forward currency  exchange  contracts to reduce
the effect of U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate volatility.

     Oil prices.  All material  sales  contracts  governing  the  Company's  oil
production have been tied directly or indirectly to NYMEX prices.  The following
table sets forth the Company's  outstanding oil hedge contracts and the weighted
average NYMEX prices for those contracts as of December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    Yearly
                                      First     Second      Third     Fourth      Outstanding
                                     Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter       Average
                                     -------    -------    -------    -------     -----------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
  Daily oil production:
      2004 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).............     24,000     24,000     14,000     14,000        18,973
        Price per Bbl............    $ 26.59    $ 26.51    $ 24.65    $ 24.65       $ 25.84

      2005 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).............     17,000     17,000     17,000     17,000        17,000
        Price per Bbl............    $ 24.93    $ 24.93    $ 24.93    $ 24.93       $ 24.93

      2006 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).............      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000         5,000
        Price per Bbl............    $ 26.19    $ 26.19    $ 26.19    $ 26.19       $ 26.19

      2007 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).............      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000         1,000
        Price per Bbl............    $ 26.00    $ 26.00    $ 26.00    $ 26.00       $ 26.00

      2008 - Swap Contracts
        Volume (Bbl).............      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000         5,000
        Price per Bbl............    $ 26.09    $ 26.09    $ 26.09    $ 26.09       $ 26.09
</TABLE>

     The Company reports average oil prices per Bbl including the effects of oil
quality  adjustments and the net effect of oil hedges.  The following table sets
forth the Company's  oil prices,  both reported  (including  hedge  results) and
realized  (excluding  hedge  results),  and the net effect of settlements of oil
price  hedges on oil revenue for the years ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and
2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                                2003       2002       2001
                                                              -------    -------    -------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
     Average price reported per Bbl........................   $ 25.59    $ 22.89    $ 24.12
     Average price realized per Bbl........................   $ 28.80    $ 22.95    $ 23.88
     Addition (reduction) to oil revenue (in millions).....   $ (41.3)   $   (.8)   $   3.0

</TABLE>



                                       69

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



     Natural gas liquids prices.  During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.  There were no
outstanding NGL hedge contracts at December 31, 2003.

     Gas prices.  The  Company  employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production  based on the index  price upon which the gas is  actually  sold,  or
based on NYMEX  prices if NYMEX  prices  are  highly  correlated  with the index
price, in order to mitigate the basis risk between NYMEX prices and actual index
prices.  The  following  table sets forth the  Company's  outstanding  gas hedge
contracts  and the  weighted  average  index  prices for those  contracts  as of
December 31, 2003:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                          Yearly
                                         First      Second       Third      Fourth      Outstanding
                                        Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter       Average
                                        --------    --------    --------    --------    ------------
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Daily gas production:
   2004 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................    295,934     280,000     280,000     280,000       283,962
     Index price per MMBtu...........   $   4.27    $   4.11    $   4.11    $   4.11      $   4.16

   2005 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................     60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000        60,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........   $   4.24    $   4.24    $   4.24    $   4.24      $   4.24

   2006 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................     70,000      70,000      70,000      70,000        70,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........   $   4.16    $   4.16    $   4.16    $   4.16      $   4.16

   2007 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)....................     20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000        20,000
     Index price per MMBtu...........   $   3.51    $   3.51    $   3.51    $   3.51      $   3.51
</TABLE>

     The Company reports average gas prices per Mcf including the effects of Btu
content,  gas  processing  and shrinkage  adjustments  and the net effect of gas
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's gas prices,  both reported
(including hedge results) and realized  (excluding  hedge results),  and the net
effect of settlements of gas price hedges on gas revenue:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               2003      2002      2001
                                                              ------    ------    ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
     Average price reported per Mcf.......................    $ 3.81    $ 2.49    $ 3.23
     Average price realized per Mcf.......................    $ 4.17    $ 2.38    $ 3.20
     Addition (reduction) to gas revenue (in millions)....    $(76.1)   $ 13.6    $  3.0
</TABLE>

     Hedge  ineffectiveness  and excluded items. During the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company  recognized  other expense of $2.8 million,
$1.7 million and $9.1 million, respectively, related to the ineffective portions
of  its  cash  flow  hedging  instruments.   Additionally,  based  on  SFAS  133
interpretive  guidance  that was in  effect  prior to April  2001,  the  Company
excluded from the  measurement  of hedge  effectiveness  changes in the time and
volatility value components of collar contracts  designated as cash flow hedges.
Associated therewith,  the Company recorded other expense of $2.4 million during
the three  month  period  ended  March 31,  2001.  In April  2001,  the  Company
discontinued  the exclusion of time value and volatility from the measurement of
hedge effectiveness.

     Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss) - net deferred hedge gains
(losses),  net of tax. As of December  31,  2003 and 2002,  AOCI - net  deferred
hedge gains  (losses),  net of tax  represented  net  deferred  losses of $104.1



                                       70

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


million and net deferred  gains of $9.6  million,  respectively.  The AOCI - net
deferred  hedge gains  (losses),  net of tax balance as of December 31, 2003 was
comprised  of $200.6  million  of net  deferred  hedge  losses on the  effective
portions of open commodity cash flow hedges, $45.1 million of net deferred gains
on terminated  cash flow hedges and $51.4 million of associated net deferred tax
benefits. The AOCI - net deferred hedge gains (losses), net of tax balance as of
December 31, 2002 was comprised of $108.1  million of net deferred  hedge losses
on the effective portions of open commodity cash flow hedges,  $117.4 million of
net deferred gains on terminated  cash flow hedges and $.3 million of associated
net deferred  tax  benefits.  The  decrease in AOCI - net  deferred  hedge gains
(losses),  net of tax during  the year ended  December  31,  2003 was  primarily
attributable to increases in future  commodity  prices relative to the commodity
prices  stipulated  in the  hedge  agreements  and the  reclassification  of net
deferred  hedge  gains to net  income as  derivatives  matured  by their  terms,
partially offset by a $51.1 million  increase in associated  deferred income tax
benefits  (see Note P for  information  regarding  the  Company's  United States
deferred  tax  valuation  allowance).  The net  deferred  hedge gains and losses
associated   with  open  cash  flow  hedges  remain   subject  to  market  price
fluctuations until the positions are either settled under the terms of the hedge
contracts or terminated  prior to settlement.  The net deferred gains and losses
on terminated cash flow hedges are fixed.

     During the twelve  month  period  ending  December  31,  2004,  the Company
expects to reclassify $151.9 million of net deferred losses associated with open
cash flow hedges and $43.9 million of net deferred gains on terminated cash flow
hedges from AOCI - net deferred hedge gains (losses),  net of tax to oil and gas
revenue.  The Company also expects to reclassify  approximately $39.6 million of
deferred  income tax benefits  during the twelve months ended  December 31, 2004
from AOCI-net  deferred hedge gains  (losses),  net of tax to income tax benefit
(provision).

     The  following  table sets  forth the  scheduled  reclassifications  of net
deferred  hedge gains on  terminated  cash flow hedges as of December  31, 2003,
that will be recognized in the Company's future oil and gas revenues:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              First     Second      Third     Fourth      Yearly
                                             Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter     Total
                                             -------    -------    -------    -------    --------
                                                                (in thousands)
<S>   <C>                                    <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
      2004 net deferred hedge gains.....     $10,978    $10,932    $11,001    $10,954    $ 43,865
      2005 net deferred hedge gains.....     $   307    $   310    $   315    $   317       1,249
                                                                                          -------
                                                                                         $ 45,114
                                                                                          =======
</TABLE>

Non-hedge Derivatives

     Btu swap  contracts.  The  Company  is a party to Btu swap  contracts  that
mature  at the end of 2004.  The Btu swap  contracts  do not  qualify  for hedge
accounting  treatment.  The  Company  recorded  mark-to-market   adjustments  to
decrease the carrying  value of the Btu swap liability by $.7 million during the
year ended  December 31,  2001.  During the year ended  December  31, 2001,  the
Company  entered into  offsetting  Btu swap  contracts  that fixed the Company's
remaining  obligations  associated  with the Btu swap  contracts.  The remaining
undiscounted  future  settlement  obligations  of the Company under the Btu swap
contracts are $7.2 million for 2004.

NOTE K.     Major Customers and Derivative Counterparties

     Sales to major customers.  The Company's share of oil and gas production is
sold to various  purchasers who must be prequalified  under the Company's credit
risk policies and procedures. The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any
one purchaser  would not have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company to
sell its oil and gas production.

     The following  customers  individually  accounted for 10 percent or more of
the consolidated  oil, NGL and gas revenues of the Company during one or more of
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:




                                       71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Percentage of Consolidated
                                                    Oil, NGL and Gas Revenues
                                                  ----------------------------
                                                   2003       2002       2001
                                                  ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>       <C>
       Williams Energy Services................     16          7         11
       Anadarko Petroleum Corporation..........      4          7         10
</TABLE>

     At  December  31,  2003,  the amount  receivable  from  Anadarko  Petroleum
Corporation  was  $1.5  million  which  is  included  in the  caption  "Accounts
receivable - trade,  net" in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. The
Company had no accounts receivable - trade, net from Williams Energy Services at
December 31, 2003.

     Derivative  counterparties.  The Company  uses  credit and other  financial
criteria to evaluate the credit  standing of, and to select,  counterparties  to
its derivative  instruments.  Although the Company does not obtain collateral or
otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit
risk is mitigated by the Company's  credit risk policies and  procedures.  As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002,  the Company had $7.6 million of  derivative  assets
for which Enron North  America Corp was the Company's  counterparty.  Associated
therewith,  the  Company  recognized  bad debt  expense of $.4  million and $6.0
million  as  components  of  other  expense  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statements  of  Operations  during the years ended  December  31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

NOTE L.     Asset Retirement Obligations

     As referred to in Note B, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 143 on
January 1, 2003. The Company's asset retirement  obligations primarily relate to
the future plugging and abandonment of proved properties and related facilities.
The Company  does not provide for a market risk  premium  associated  with asset
retirement  obligations  because a reliable  estimate cannot be determined.  The
Company has no assets that are legally restricted for purposes of settling asset
retirement  obligations.  The following  table  summarizes  the Company's  asset
retirement obligation transactions recorded in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 143 during the year ended  December  31,  2003 and in  accordance  with the
provisions of SFAS 19 during the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                          ---------------------------------
                                                            2003        2002        2001
                                                          --------    --------    ---------
                                                                   (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>         <C>
     Beginning asset retirement obligations...........    $ 34,692    $ 39,461    $  41,983
        Cumulative effect adjustment..................      23,393         -            -
        New wells placed on production and
           changes in estimates.......................      46,664         293          -
        Acquisition liabilities assumed...............       1,791         -            981
        Liabilities settled...........................      (8,069)     (6,832)      (3,287)
        Accretion expense.............................       5,040       2,562        2,590
        Currency translation..........................       1,525        (792)      (2,806)
                                                           -------     -------     --------
     Ending asset retirement obligations .............    $105,036    $ 34,692    $  39,461
                                                           =======     =======     ========
</TABLE>


                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


NOTE M.     Interest and Other Income

     The following  table provides the components of the Company's  interest and
other income during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                              --------------------------------
                                                                2003        2002        2001
                                                              --------    --------    --------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
     Kansas ad valorem escrow adjustments (see Note I).....   $    -      $  3,500    $  1,100
     Retirement obligation revaluations....................      4,410         -           -
     Excise tax income.....................................      2,369       2,398       4,126
     Production payment income.............................        -           -         5,552
     Interest income.......................................        981         642       2,128
     Seismic data sales....................................        424          87       1,841
     Foreign exchange gains................................        657         142         223
     Other income..........................................      3,451       4,453       6,808
                                                               -------     -------     -------
          Total interest and other income..................   $ 12,292    $ 11,222    $ 21,778
                                                               =======     =======     =======
</TABLE>

NOTE N.     Asset Divestitures

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  the  Company
completed asset  divestitures for net proceeds of $35.7 million,  $118.9 million
and $113.5 million,  respectively.  Associated  therewith,  the Company recorded
gains on  disposition  of assets of $1.3 million,  $4.4 million and $7.7 million
during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

     Hedge  derivative  divestitures.  During the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, the Company terminated,  prior to their scheduled maturity, hedge
derivatives  for cash sales proceeds of $18.3  million,  $91.3 million and $85.4
million,  respectively.  Net gains from these divestitures were deferred and are
being amortized over the original  contract lives of the terminated  derivatives
as reductions to interest expense or increases to oil and gas revenues. See Note
J for more information regarding deferred gains on terminated hedge derivatives.

     Available for sale securities divestitures.  During the year ended December
31, 2001,  the Company sold its remaining  613,250  shares of common stock of an
unaffiliated  entity  for $12.7  million  of cash  proceeds  and  recognized  an
associated gain on disposition of assets of $8.1 million.

     Other United States divestitures.  During the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company  received  $15.2  million of cash proceeds from the sale of unproved
property  interests and $.9 million of cash proceeds from the sale of other U.S.
corporate assets. Associated with these divestitures,  the Company recorded $1.5
million of net gains.  During the year ended  December  31,  2002,  the  Company
received  $20.9 million of proceeds from the cash  settlement of a gas balancing
receivable,  $4.7  million  from the sale of certain gas  properties  located in
Oklahoma and $1.8 million from the sale of other  corporate  assets.  Associated
with these divestitures, the Company recorded net gains of $4.2 million.

     Other international divestitures.  During the year ended December 31, 2001,
the Company  received  $12.0  million of  proceeds  from the sale of certain oil
properties  in  Canada  and $.4  million  of  proceeds  from  the  sale of other
international assets. Associated with these transactions, the Company recognized
a net loss of $.8 million.





                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


NOTE O.     Other Expense

     The following  table provides the components of the Company's other expense
during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Years Ended December 31,
                                                                  --------------------------------
                                                                    2003        2002        2001
                                                                  --------    --------    --------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
     Derivative ineffectiveness and mark-to-market
        provisions (see Note J)................................   $  2,831    $  1,664    $ 11,458
     Gas marketing losses (see Note I).........................        922       2,556       9,850
     Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange losses (a)....      2,672       7,623       8,474
     Bad debt expense (see Note K).............................        354         129       6,152
     Loss on early extinguishment of debt (see Note E).........      1,457      22,346       3,753
     Kansas ad valorem escrow adjustments (see Note I).........      1,776         -           -
     Argentine personal asset tax..............................      1,996         -           -
     Other charges.............................................      9,312       5,284       3,654
                                                                   -------     -------     -------
          Total other expense..................................   $ 21,320    $ 39,602    $ 43,341
                                                                   =======     =======     =======
<FN>
- ----------
(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE P.     Income Taxes

     The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes"  ("SFAS  109").  The  Company  and  its  eligible   subsidiaries  file  a
consolidated United States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries are
not eligible to be included in the consolidated United States federal income tax
return and separate  provisions for income taxes have been  determined for these
entities or groups of entities. The tax returns and the amount of taxable income
or loss are subject to examination by United States  federal,  state and foreign
taxing  authorities.  Current and estimated  tax payments of $5.3 million,  $2.3
million and $11.7  million  were made during the years ended  December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

     From 1998 until 2003, the Company maintained a valuation  allowance against
a portion of its  deferred  tax asset  position in the United  States.  SFAS 109
requires that the Company continually assess both positive and negative evidence
to determine  whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets can be
realized  prior to their  expiration.  In the  third  quarter  of 2003 and as of
December 31,  2003,  the Company has  concluded  that it is more likely than not
that it will realize its gross  deferred tax asset position in the United States
after giving consideration to the following specific facts:

o    Over the past several  years,  the Company has been steadily  improving its
     portfolio of assets,  including  significant proved reserve discoveries and
     follow-up  development  projects  that have  recently  started to  produce.
     Specifically, Pioneer completed development activities and began production
     operations on its Canyon  Express gas project in September  2002 and on its
     Company-operated  Falcon  field gas project in March 2003.  The  production
     performance  to-date and the reservoir  data that has been  accumulated  on
     these  projects  provide  assurance  that these  projects  will recover the
     reserves as predicted.

o    During 2003, the Company  announced  additional  Falcon area discoveries in
     the  Harrier,  Tomahawk  and Raptor  fields and during  January  2004,  the
     Harrier development project was completed and began production  operations.
     The Company expects first production from the Tomahawk and Raptor fields in


                                       74

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     mid-2004.  The Company also expects to  complete its other significant Gulf
     of Mexico development project, Devils Tower, in mid-2004.

o    Commodity  market  supply and demand  fundamentals  continued  to stabilize
     during the third and fourth quarters of 2003 as evidenced by quoted futures
     prices that suggest that North  American gas prices will remain  relatively
     flat over the next five years and that  worldwide  oil  prices may  decline
     modestly over that time span compared to relatively high current levels for
     each commodity.

o    The Company's future revenues are further  protected against price declines
     through its significant hedging program. The Company has hedged portions of
     its oil price risk  through 2008 and portions of its gas price risk through
     2007. See Note J for information regarding the Company's hedge positions.

o    The Company  generated  record  pretax income for the third quarter of 2003
     and net income in each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001 and
     2000. The Company also generated taxable income during 2003,  including the
     deduction  of 100 percent of its  intangible  drilling  costs.  The Company
     believes that these trends will continue for the foreseeable future.

o    The Company performed various economic  evaluations in the third quarter of
     2003 to  determine  if the  Company  would  be able to  realize  all of its
     deferred tax assets, including its net operating loss carryforwards,  prior
     to any expiration.  These  evaluations were based on the Company's  reserve
     projections of existing  producing  properties and recent discoveries being
     developed.  These evaluations  employed varying price assumptions,  some of
     which included a significant reduction in commodity prices, and factored in
     limitations on the use of the Company's net operating  loss  carryforwards.
     The evaluations did not include assumptions of increases in proved reserves
     through future exploration or acquisitions.  The evaluations indicated that
     the deferred tax assets are realizable in the future.

     Accordingly,  during the third  quarter of 2003,  the Company  reversed its
remaining valuation allowance in the United States, resulting in the recognition
of a deferred  tax  benefit of $104.7  million.  For 2003 in total,  the Company
reversed $197.7 million of United States valuation allowances resulting in a net
deferred tax benefit for the year.  Further,  the third quarter  reversal of the
allowance  increased  stockholders'  equity  by  $32.6  million  as the  Company
recognized  the tax effects of previous  stock  option  exercises  and  deferred
hedging gains and losses in other comprehensive income.

     Pioneer will continue to monitor Company-specific, oil and gas industry and
worldwide  economic  factors and will reassess the likelihood that the Company's
net operating  loss  carryforwards  and other  deferred tax  attributes  will be
utilized prior to their  expiration.  There can be no assurances  that facts and
circumstances  will not materially change and require the Company to reestablish
a United States deferred tax asset valuation allowance in a future period. As of
December 31, 2003,  the Company does not believe  there is  sufficient  positive
evidence  to  reverse   its   valuation   allowances   related  to  foreign  tax
jurisdictions.



                                       75

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     During the years ended  December 31,  2003,  2002 and 2001,  the  Company's
income  tax  provision   (benefit)  and  amounts   separately   allocated   were
attributable to the following items:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                 -----------------------------------
                                                                    2003          2002       2001
                                                                 ----------    ---------   ---------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                              <C>           <C>         <C>
     Income before cumulative effect of change in
       accounting principle...................................   $  (64,403)   $   5,063   $   4,016
     Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle......        1,312          -           -
     Changes in stockholders' equity:
       Net deferred hedge gains and losses....................      (51,064)      (2,561)      2,293
       Tax benefits related to stock-based compensation.......      (14,666)         -           -
       Translation adjustment.................................         (324)         (20)       (121)
                                                                  ---------     --------    --------
                                                                 $ (129,145)   $   2,482   $   6,188
                                                                  =========     ========    ========
</TABLE>

     Income tax provision  (benefit)  attributable  to income before  cumulative
effect of change in accounting principle consists of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                   ---------------------------------
                                                      2003       2002        2001
                                                   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                             (in thousands)
<S>                                                <C>         <C>         <C>
     Current:
       U.S. federal............................    $     100   $     -     $     -
       U.S. state and local....................          -           209       1,080
       Foreign.................................       11,085       2,066      10,585
                                                    --------    --------    --------
                                                      11,185       2,275      11,665
                                                    --------    --------    --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal............................      (69,020)        -           -
       U.S. state and local....................       (7,291)        -           -
       Foreign.................................          723       2,788      (7,649)
                                                    --------    --------    --------
                                                     (75,588)      2,788      (7,649)
                                                    --------    --------    --------
                                                   $ (64,403)  $   5,063   $   4,016
                                                    ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>

     Income  before income taxes and  cumulative  effect of change in accounting
principle consists of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                                    2003         2002       2001
                                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                           (in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
     Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of
      change in accounting principle:
       U.S. federal...........................................    $ 335,170   $  36,475   $ 136,292
       Foreign................................................       (4,394)     (4,699)    (32,280)
                                                                   --------    --------    --------
                                                                  $ 330,776   $  31,776   $ 104,012
                                                                   ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>




                                       76

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


     Reconciliations  of the United  States  federal  statutory  tax rate to the
Company's  effective tax rate for income before  cumulative  effect of change in
accounting principle are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            2003      2002       2001
                                                          -------    ------    -------
<S>                                                          <C>        <C>       <C>
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate...................      35.0       35.0      35.0
     U.S. valuation allowance reversal.................     (59.8)     (44.1)    (38.5)
     Foreign valuation allowances (a)..................      13.1       28.2      11.2
     Rate differential on foreign operations...........       (.9)       (.5)     (3.3)
     Argentine inflation adjustment (a)................     (12.4)       -         -
     Other.............................................       5.5       (2.7)      (.6)
                                                          -------    -------   -------
     Consolidated effective tax rate...................     (19.5)      15.9       3.8
                                                          =======    =======   =======
<FN>
- -----------
(a)  The Company  has  applied an  inflation  adjustment  to its 2002  Argentine
     income tax return based on developing  case law. The Company  believes that
     it is more  likely  than not  that the  adjustment  will be  denied  by the
     Argentine  taxing  authorities  and has provided a $40.8 million  valuation
     allowance against this tax benefit.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The tax  effects of  temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           December 31,
                                                                     -----------------------
                                                                        2003         2002
                                                                     ---------     ---------
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards..............................     $ 300,296     $ 299,495
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards..................         1,457         1,565
  Net deferred hedge gains and losses...........................        56,842        41,544
  Asset retirement obligations..................................        29,040        12,402
  Other.........................................................        92,561        89,948
                                                                      --------      --------
    Total deferred tax assets...................................       480,196       444,954
  Valuation allowances..........................................       (94,910)     (277,217)
                                                                      --------      --------
    Net deferred tax assets.....................................       385,286       167,737
                                                                      --------      --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to differences
    in basis, depletion and the deduction of intangible
    drilling costs for tax purposes.............................       161,532        80,364
  Other.........................................................         3,017         5,393
                                                                      --------      --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities..............................       164,549        85,757
                                                                      --------      --------
    Net deferred tax asset......................................     $ 220,737     $  81,980
                                                                      ========      ========
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 2003,  the Company had NOLs for United  States,  Argentine,
Canadian,  Gabonese,  South  African and Tunisian  income tax purposes of $746.6
million,  $3.9 million,  $26.3 million,  $17.0  million,  $47.7 million and $9.0
million,  respectively,  which are  available to offset future  regular  taxable
income in each respective tax jurisdiction,  if any.  Additionally,  at December
31,  2003,  the  Company  has   alternative   minimum  tax  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  ("AMT NOLs") in the United  States of $653.0  million,  which are
available to reduce future  alternative  minimum taxable  income,  if any. These
carryforwards expire as follows:



                                       77

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                U.S.                                                South
                        ---------------------   Argentina    Canada      Gabon      Africa     Tunisia
Expiration Date            NOL       AMT NOL        NOL        NOL        NOL         NOL        NOL
- ---------------         --------    ---------    --------   --------   ---------   --------    -------
                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                     <C>         <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
December 31, 2005....   $    -      $     -      $    -     $ 19,288   $     -     $    -      $   -
December 31, 2006....     33,011       27,133         -        7,048         -          -          -
December 31, 2007....    181,049      156,447       3,928        -           -          -          -
December 31, 2008....    102,271      106,558         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2009....     37,974       21,551         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2010....     25,144       15,253         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2012....     68,334       58,723         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2018....    127,970       98,604         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2019....    142,518      141,355         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2020....     14,387       13,449         -          -           -          -          -
December 31, 2021....     13,895       13,895         -          -           -          -          -
Indefinite...........        -            -           -          -        17,036     47,704      8,980
                         -------     --------     -------    -------    --------    -------     ------
                        $746,553    $ 652,968    $  3,928   $ 26,336   $  17,036   $ 47,704    $ 8,980
                         =======     ========     =======    =======    ========    =======     ======
</TABLE>

     The  Company  believes  $140.0  million  of the U.S.  NOLs and AMT NOLs are
subject to Section  382 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code and are  limited in each
taxable year to approximately $20.0 million.

NOTE Q.     Income Per Share Before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting
            Principle

     Basic income per share  before  cumulative  effect of change in  accounting
principle is computed by dividing income before  cumulative  effect of change in
accounting principle by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
for the period.  The  computation of diluted income per share before  cumulative
effect of change in accounting  principle  reflects the potential  dilution that
could occur if  securities  or other  contracts  to issue  common stock that are
dilutive to income before  cumulative  effect of change in accounting  principle
were  exercised  or  converted  into common stock or resulted in the issuance of
common stock that would then share in the earnings of the Company.

     The following table is a  reconciliation  of the basic and diluted weighted
average common shares  outstanding  for the years ended December 31, 2003,  2002
and 2001:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                           --------------------------------
                                                             2003        2002        2001
                                                           --------    --------    --------
                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
     Weighted average common shares outstanding:
       Basic............................................    117,185     112,542      98,529
       Dilutive common stock options (a)................      1,112       1,725       1,185
       Restricted stock awards..........................        216          21         -
                                                           --------    --------    --------
       Diluted..........................................    118,513     114,288      99,714
                                                           ========    ========    ========
<FN>
- ---------------
(a)  Common  stock  options to purchase  976,506  shares,  1,925,743  shares and
     3,595,880  shares of common stock were  outstanding but not included in the
     computations  of diluted net income per share for the years ended  December
     31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,  respectively,  because the exercise prices of the
     options were greater than the average market price of the common shares and
     would be anti-dilutive to the computations.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       78

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


NOTE R.     Geographic Operating Segment Information

     The Company has operations in only one industry segment, that being the oil
and  gas  exploration  and  production   industry;   however,   the  Company  is
organizationally structured along geographic operating segments, or regions. The
Company has reportable  operations in the United  States,  Argentina and Canada.
Other foreign is primarily  comprised of  operations in Gabon,  South Africa and
Tunisia.

     The following table provides the geographic operating segment data required
by  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure  about
Segments  of an  Enterprise  and  Related  Information",  as well as  results of
operations  of oil  and  gas  producing  activities  required  by  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
Activities"  as of and for the years ended  December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001.
Geographic  operating  segment  income  tax  benefits   (provisions)  have  been
determined  based on statutory  rates existing in the various tax  jurisdictions
where the Company has oil and gas producing  activities.  The  "Headquarters and
Other" table column includes revenues, expenses, additions to properties, plants
and  equipment  and  assets  that are not  routinely  included  in the  earnings
measures  or  attributes  internally  reported  to  management  on a  geographic
operating segment basis.



                                       79

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               United                              Other     Headquarters   Consolidated
                                               States     Argentina    Canada     Foreign      and Other        Total
                                            -----------   ---------   --------   ---------   ------------   ------------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                         <C>           <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>            <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $ 1,097,365   $ 111,315   $ 68,624    $ 21,343    $      -       $1,298,647
   Interest and other.....................          -           -          -           -          12,292         12,292
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net..........................        1,458         -            1         -            (203)         1,256
                                             ----------    --------     ------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                              1,098,823     111,315     68,625      21,343        12,089      1,312,195
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Oil and gas production.................      237,484      26,110     13,045       2,887           -          279,526
   Depletion, depreciation and
     amortization.........................      298,005      46,518     28,991       7,729         9,597        390,840
   Exploration and abandonments...........       72,732      18,076     17,691      24,261           -          132,760
   General and administrative.............          -           -          -           -          60,545         60,545
   Accretion of discount on asset
     retirement obligations...............          -           -          -           -           5,040          5,040
   Interest...............................          -           -          -           -          91,388         91,388
   Other..................................          -           -          -           -          21,320         21,320
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                                608,221      90,704     59,727      34,877       187,890        981,419
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes and
     cumulative effect of change in
     accounting principle.................      490,602      20,611      8,898     (13,534)     (175,801)       330,776
   Income tax benefit (provision).........     (179,070)     (7,214)    (3,426)      4,738       249,375         64,403
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Income (loss) before cumulative effect
     of change in accounting principle....  $   311,532   $  13,397   $  5,472    $ (8,796)   $   73,574     $  395,179
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets....  $   563,013   $  52,138   $ 53,030    $ 54,819    $      -       $  723,000
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31,
     2003)................................  $ 2,631,240   $ 689,781   $224,925    $159,747    $  245,879     $3,951,572
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========

Year Ended December 31, 2002:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $   573,289   $  77,615   $ 50,876    $    -      $      -       $  701,780
   Interest and other.....................          -           -          -           -          11,222         11,222
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net..........................        3,248          (3)       995         -             192          4,432
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                                576,537      77,612     51,871         -          11,414        717,434
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Oil and gas production.................      174,929      13,870     10,771         -             -          199,570
   Depletion, depreciation and
     amortization.........................      140,107      39,659     27,857         -           8,752        216,375
   Exploration and abandonments...........       62,955      10,306      5,841       6,792           -           85,894
   General and administrative.............          -           -          -           -          48,402         48,402
   Interest...............................          -           -          -           -          95,815         95,815
   Other..................................          -           -          -           -          39,602         39,602
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                                377,991      63,835     44,469       6,792       192,571        685,658
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes......      198,546      13,777      7,402      (6,792)     (181,157)        31,776
   Income tax benefit (provision).........      (69,491)     (4,822)    (3,118)      2,377        69,991         (5,063)
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Net income (loss)......................  $   129,055   $   8,955   $  4,284    $ (4,415)   $ (111,166)    $   26,713
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets....  $   533,560   $  35,121   $ 33,506    $ 70,268    $      -       $  672,455
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31,
     2002)................................  $ 2,375,505   $ 680,063   $176,110    $118,070    $  105,368     $3,455,116
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========

Year Ended December 31, 2001:
   Oil and gas revenues...................  $   649,635   $ 130,241   $ 67,146    $    -      $      -       $  847,022
   Interest and other.....................          -           -          -           -          21,778         21,778
   Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net..........................          224         -       (1,339)        -           8,796          7,681
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                                649,859     130,241     65,807         -          30,574        876,481
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Oil and gas production.................      170,578      26,614     12,472         -             -          209,664
   Depletion, depreciation and
     amortization.........................      128,477      51,391     28,868         -          13,896        222,632
   Exploration and abandonments...........       70,049      23,857      9,882      24,118           -          127,906
   General and administrative.............          -           -          -           -          36,968         36,968
   Interest...............................          -           -          -           -         131,958        131,958
   Other..................................          -           -          -           -          43,341         43,341
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
                                                369,104     101,862     51,222      24,118       226,163        772,469
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Income (loss) before income taxes......      280,755      28,379     14,585     (24,118)     (195,589)       104,012
   Income tax benefit (provision).........      (98,264)     (9,933)    (6,216)      8,441       101,956         (4,016)
                                             ----------    --------    -------     -------     ---------      ---------
   Net income (loss)......................  $   182,491   $  18,446   $  8,369    $(15,677)   $  (93,633)    $   99,996
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========
   Cost incurred for long-lived assets....  $   454,229   $  98,311   $ 36,048    $ 57,972    $      -       $  646,560
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========
   Segment assets (as of December 31,
     2001)................................  $ 2,212,540   $ 710,702   $187,841    $ 53,314    $  106,656     $3,271,053
                                             ==========    ========    =======     =======     =========      =========
</TABLE>



                                       80

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001



NOTE S.     Pioneer USA

     Pioneer USA is a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company that has fully and
unconditionally  guaranteed  certain debt  securities of the Company (see Note E
above).  In  accordance  with  practices  accepted  by the SEC,  the Company has
prepared  Consolidating  Condensed Financial Statements in order to quantify the
assets and results of operations of Pioneer USA as a subsidiary  guarantor.  The
following  Consolidating  Condensed  Balance  Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and
2002, and Consolidating Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss)
and  Consolidating  Condensed  Statements  of Cash  Flows  for the  years  ended
December  31,  2003,  2002 and 2001 present  financial  information  for Pioneer
Natural  Resources  Company as the Parent on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any
investments in subsidiaries under the equity method),  financial information for
Pioneer USA on a stand-alone  basis  (carrying any  investment in  non-guarantor
subsidiaries   under  the  equity   method),   financial   information  for  the
non-guarantor   subsidiaries  of  the  Company  on  a  consolidated  basis,  the
consolidation and elimination entries necessary to arrive at the information for
the Company on a  consolidated  basis,  and the  financial  information  for the
Company on a  consolidated  basis.  Pioneer  USA is not  restricted  from making
distributions to the Company.



                                       81

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2003
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Non-
                                                            Pioneer     Guarantor                   Consolidated
                                               Parent         USA      Subsidiaries   Eliminations      Total
                                            -----------   ----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
ASSETS
<S>                                         <C>           <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $       369   $     4,225   $   14,705    $       -      $    19,299
  Other current assets, net...............    1,654,575    (1,354,256)    (114,503)           -          185,816
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
      Total current assets................    1,654,944    (1,350,031)     (99,798)           -          205,115
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.....................          -       3,508,365    1,475,193            -        4,983,558
    Unproved properties...................          -          25,460      154,365            -          179,825
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization..........................          -      (1,208,700)    (467,436)           -       (1,676,136)
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
      Total property, plant and equipment           -       2,325,125    1,162,122            -        3,487,247
                                             ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------     ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................      190,492           -          1,852            -          192,344
Other property and equipment, net.........          -          23,890        4,190            -           28,080
Other assets, net.........................       14,836        17,076        6,874            -           38,786
Investment in subsidiaries................    1,604,534       167,515          -       (1,772,049)           -
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
                                            $ 3,464,806   $ 1,183,575   $1,075,240    $(1,772,049)   $ 3,951,572
                                             ==========    ==========    =========     ==========     ==========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities.......................  $    29,978   $   347,720   $   52,054    $       -      $   429,752
Long-term debt............................    1,555,461           -            -              -        1,555,461
Other liabilities.........................          -         226,055      (31,589)           -          194,466
Deferred income taxes.....................          -             -         12,121            -           12,121
Stockholders' equity......................    1,879,367       609,800    1,042,654     (1,772,049)     1,759,772
Commitments and contingencies.............
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
                                            $ 3,464,806   $ 1,183,575   $1,075,240    $(1,772,049)   $ 3,951,572
                                             ==========    ==========    =========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>


                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2002
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           Non-
                                                            Pioneer     Guarantor                   Consolidated
                                               Parent         USA      Subsidiaries   Eliminations      Total
                                            -----------   ----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
ASSETS
<S>                                         <C>           <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...............  $         6   $     1,783   $    6,701    $       -      $     8,490
  Other current assets, net...............    1,727,828    (1,480,657)    (108,568)           -          138,603
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
    Total current assets..................    1,727,834    (1,478,874)    (101,867)           -          147,093
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.....................          -       3,024,845    1,228,052            -        4,252,897
    Unproved properties...................          -          43,969      175,104            -          219,073
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization  ........................          -        (947,091)    (356,450)           -       (1,303,541)
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
      Total property, plant and equipment           -       2,121,723    1,046,706            -        3,168,429
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
Deferred income taxes.....................       75,311           -          1,529            -           76,840
Other property and equipment, net.........          -          19,000        3,784            -           22,784
Other assets, net.........................       16,067        14,231        9,672            -           39,970
Investment in subsidiaries................    1,247,042       136,159          -       (1,383,201)           -
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
                                            $ 3,066,254   $   812,239   $  959,824    $(1,383,201)   $ 3,455,116
                                             ==========    ==========    =========     ==========     ==========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities.......................  $    30,785   $   216,065   $   27,742    $       -      $   274,592
Long-term debt............................    1,668,536           -            -              -        1,668,536
Other liabilities.........................          -         147,970      (19,639)           -          128,331
Deferred income taxes.....................          -             -          8,760            -            8,760
Stockholders' equity......................    1,366,933       448,204      942,961     (1,383,201)     1,374,897
Commitments and contingencies.............
                                             ----------    ----------    ---------     ----------     ----------
                                            $ 3,066,254   $   812,239   $  959,824    $(1,383,201)   $ 3,455,116
                                             ==========    ==========    =========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>




                                       82

<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2003
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Non-      Consolidated
                                                          Pioneer      Guarantor     Income Tax                   Consolidated
                                               Parent       USA       Subsidiaries   Provision     Eliminations      Total
                                            ----------   ----------   ------------   -----------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $      -     $1,008,668     $ 289,979     $      -       $     -       $1,298,647
  Interest and other....................           -          7,303         4,989            -             -           12,292
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................           -          1,403          (147)           -             -            1,256
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
                                                   -      1,017,374       294,821            -             -        1,312,195
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................           -        215,886        63,640            -             -          279,526
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................           -        293,665        97,175            -             -          390,840
  Exploration and abandonments..........           -         71,391        61,369            -             -          132,760
  General and administrative............           971       47,763        11,811            -             -           60,545
  Accretion of discount on asset
    retirement obligations..............           -          3,804         1,236            -             -            5,040
  Interest..............................        23,964       66,012         1,412            -             -           91,388
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..      (362,094)      17,024           -              -         345,070            -
  Other.................................         1,465        7,387        12,468            -             -           21,320
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
                                              (335,694)     722,932       249,111            -         345,070        981,419
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
Income before income taxes and
  cumulative effect of change in
  accounting principle..................       335,694      294,442        45,710            -        (345,070)       330,776
Income tax benefit (provision)..........           -            -         (10,495)        74,898           -           64,403
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
Income before cumulative effect of
  change in accounting principle........       335,694      294,442        35,215         74,898      (345,070)       395,179
Cumulative effect of change in
  accounting principle, net of tax......           -         11,859         3,554            -             -           15,413
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
Net income..............................       335,694      306,301        38,769         74,898      (345,070)       410,592
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses),
   net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge losses...........           -       (265,142)      (17,023)           -             -         (282,165)
    Tax benefits related to net deferred
       hedge losses.....................           -            -             249         50,815           -           51,064
    Net hedge losses included in net
       income...........................           -        109,223         8,193            -             -          117,416
  Translation adjustment................           -            -          36,938            -             -           36,938
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      ---------      --------      ---------
Comprehensive income (loss).............    $  335,694   $  150,382     $  67,126     $  125,713     $(345,070)    $  333,845
                                             =========    =========      ========      =========      ========      =========

</TABLE>





                                       83

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Non-      Consolidated
                                                          Pioneer      Guarantor     Income Tax                   Consolidated
                                               Parent       USA       Subsidiaries   Provision     Eliminations      Total
                                            ----------   ----------   ------------   -----------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $      -     $  527,189     $ 174,591     $     -         $    -       $  701,780
  Interest and other....................           -          8,214         3,008           -              -           11,222
  Gain on disposition of assets, net....           -          3,230         1,202           -              -            4,432
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
                                                   -        538,633       178,801           -              -          717,434
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................           -        165,669        33,901           -              -          199,570
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................           -        139,822        76,553           -              -          216,375
  Exploration and abandonments..........           -         62,982        22,912           -              -           85,894
  General and administrative............         1,323       37,723         9,356           -              -           48,402
  Interest..............................        17,451       76,820         1,544           -              -           95,815
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..       (52,580)       8,374           -             -           44,206            -
  Other.................................         7,093        4,879        27,630           -              -           39,602
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
                                               (26,713)     496,269       171,896           -           44,206        685,658
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
Income before income taxes..............        26,713       42,364         6,905           -          (44,206)        31,776
Income tax provision....................           -            -          (5,063)          -              -           (5,063)
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
Net income..............................        26,713       42,364         1,842           -          (44,206)        26,713
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses):
    Net deferred hedge losses...........            (4)    (156,396)      (25,228)          -              -         (181,628)
    Tax benefits related to net deferred
      hedge losses......................           -            -           2,561           -              -            2,561
    Net hedge (gains) losses included in
      net income........................           447      (10,352)       (2,519)          -              -          (12,424)
  Translation adjustment................           -            -           2,188           -              -            2,188
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        -------      ---------
Comprehensive income (loss).............    $   27,156   $ (124,384)    $ (21,156)    $     -         $(44,206)    $ (162,590)
                                             =========    =========      ========      ========        =======      =========
</TABLE>



                                       84

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                         AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Non-      Consolidated
                                                          Pioneer      Guarantor     Income Tax                   Consolidated
                                               Parent       USA       Subsidiaries   Provision     Eliminations      Total
                                            ----------   ----------   ------------   -----------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                         <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas...........................    $      -     $  626,964     $ 220,058     $     -         $     -      $  847,022
  Interest and other....................           368       14,415         6,995           -               -          21,778
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net.........................           -          8,524          (843)          -               -           7,681
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
                                                   368      649,903       226,210           -               -         876,481
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production................           -        168,287        41,377           -               -         209,664
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................           -        135,838        86,794           -               -         222,632
  Exploration and abandonments..........           -         73,649        54,257           -               -         127,906
  General and administrative............           804       25,476        10,688           -               -          36,968
  Interest..............................        31,261       83,473        17,224           -               -         131,958
  Equity (income) loss from subsidiary..      (135,459)       5,588           -             -           129,871           -
  Other.................................         3,753        9,247        30,341           -               -          43,341
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
                                               (99,641)     501,558       240,681           -           129,871       772,469
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
Income (loss) before income taxes.......       100,009      148,345       (14,471)          -          (129,871)      104,012
Income tax provision....................           -           (783)       (3,220)          (13)            -          (4,016)
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
Net income (loss).......................       100,009      147,562       (17,691)          (13)       (129,871)       99,996
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses):
    Transition adjustment...............           -       (172,007)      (25,437)          -               -        (197,444)
    Net deferred hedge gains (losses)...          (578)     364,051        31,824           -               -         395,297
    Tax provisions related to net
      deferred hedge gains..............           -            -          (2,293)          -               -          (2,293)
    Net hedge (gains) losses included in
      net income available for sale
      securities........................           135       (8,595)       13,946           -               -           5,486
  Net unrealized gains (losses) on
   available for sale securities:
    Net unrealized available for sale
      securities holding losses.........           -            (45)          -             -               -             (45)
    Net available for sale securities
      gains included in net income......           -         (8,109)          -             -               -          (8,109)
  Translation adjustment................           -            -         (11,173)          -               -         (11,173)
                                             ---------    ---------      --------      --------        --------     ---------
Comprehensive income (loss).............    $   99,566   $  322,857     $ (10,824)    $     (13)      $(129,871)   $  281,715
                                             =========    =========      ========      ========        ========     =========

</TABLE>

                                       85

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2003
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                               Non-
                                                                              Pioneer       Guarantor     Consolidated
                                                                 Parent         USA        Subsidiaries       Total
                                                               ----------    ----------    ------------   ------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by operating activities................    $   59,761    $  491,890     $  212,028    $   763,679
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................        18,267        16,749            682         35,698
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................           -        (478,280)      (209,853)      (688,133)
  Other property (additions) dispositions, net.............           -         (14,748)         4,883         (9,865)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) investing
           activities......................................        18,267      (476,279)      (204,288)      (662,300)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................       264,725           -              -          264,725
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................      (370,262)          -              -         (370,262)
  Payment of other liabilities.............................           -         (13,169)          (886)       (14,055)
  Deferred loan fees.......................................        (2,799)          -              -           (2,799)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................        (2,349)          -              -           (2,349)
  Stock options exercised and employee stock purchases.....        33,020           -              -           33,020
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities.............       (77,665)      (13,169)          (886)       (91,720)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents..................           363         2,442          6,854          9,659
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................           -             -            1,150          1,150
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............             6         1,783          6,701          8,490
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $      369    $    4,225     $   14,705    $    19,299
                                                                =========     =========      =========     ==========
</TABLE>


                 CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2002
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               Non-
                                                                              Pioneer       Guarantor     Consolidated
                                                                 Parent         USA        Subsidiaries       Total
                                                               ----------    ----------    ------------   ------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $ (327,185)   $  406,939     $  252,491    $   332,245
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................        31,994        86,703            153        118,850
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................           -        (365,981)      (248,717)      (614,698)
  Other property (additions) dispositions, net.............           -         (13,171)           888        (12,283)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities..        31,994      (292,449)      (247,676)      (508,131)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................       529,805           -              -          529,805
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................      (481,783)          -              -         (481,783)
  Common stock issuance proceeds, net of issuance costs....       236,000           -              -          236,000
  Payment of other liabilities.............................           -        (123,607)          (638)      (124,245)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................        (3,293)          -              -           (3,293)
  Stock options exercised and employee stock purchases.....        14,389           -              -           14,389
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..       295,118      (123,607)          (638)       170,873
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......           (73)       (9,117)         4,177         (5,013)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................           -             -             (831)          (831)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............            79        10,900          3,355         14,334
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $        6    $    1,783     $    6,701    $     8,490
                                                                =========     =========      =========     ==========
</TABLE>


                                       86

<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               Non-
                                                                              Pioneer       Guarantor     Consolidated
                                                                 Parent         USA        Subsidiaries       Total
                                                               ----------    ----------    ------------   ------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities......    $  (10,503)   $  307,776     $  178,327    $   475,600
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash acquired in acquisition, net of fees paid...........           -          11,119            -           11,119
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................        21,170        75,816         16,467        113,453
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................           -        (336,753)      (192,970)      (529,723)
  Other property additions, net............................           -         (10,717)        (6,873)       (17,590)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities..        21,170      (260,535)      (183,376)      (422,741)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................       328,331           -              -          328,331
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................      (333,410)          -              -         (333,410)
  Borrowing under (payment of) other liabilities...........           -         (54,728)         1,291        (53,437)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................       (13,028)          -              -          (13,028)
  Stock options exercised and employee stock purchases.....         7,504           -              -            7,504
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..       (10,603)      (54,728)         1,291        (64,040)
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......            64        (7,487)        (3,758)       (11,181)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents..............................................           -             -             (644)          (644)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............            15        18,387          7,757         26,159
                                                                ---------     ---------      ---------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $       79    $   10,900     $    3,355    $    14,334
                                                                =========     =========      =========     ==========
</TABLE>








                                       87

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


Capitalized Costs
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  December 31,
                                                                         ----------------------------
                                                                             2003            2002
                                                                         -----------      -----------
                                                                                (in thousands)
<S>                                                                      <C>              <C>
   Oil and Gas Properties:
     Proved..........................................................    $ 4,983,558      $ 4,252,897
     Unproved........................................................        179,825          219,073
                                                                          ----------       ----------

     Capitalized costs for oil and gas properties....................      5,163,383        4,471,970
     Less accumulated depletion......................................     (1,676,136)      (1,303,541)
                                                                          -----------      -----------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties................    $ 3,487,247      $ 3,168,429
                                                                          ==========       ==========
</TABLE>


Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Property
                                           Acquisition Costs                                        Total
                                        -----------------------     Exploration    Development      Costs
                                         Proved       Unproved         Costs          Costs        Incurred
                                        ---------     ---------     ----------     ------------    ---------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
  United States......................   $ 130,876     $  12,264     $ 191,809      $ 228,064       $ 563,013
  Argentina..........................          97         1,787        24,893         25,361          52,138
  Canada.............................          63         5,028        24,899         23,040          53,030
  Africa and other...................         -             910        33,212         20,697          54,819
                                         --------      --------      --------       --------        --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 131,036     $  19,989     $ 274,813      $ 297,162       $ 723,000
                                         ========      ========      ========       ========        ========
Year Ended December 31, 2002:
  United States......................   $ 156,736     $  34,048     $  72,831      $ 269,945       $ 533,560
  Argentina..........................          12            51        14,530         20,528          35,121
  Canada.............................         457         2,329         9,992         20,728          33,506
  Africa and other...................         -           1,843        34,125         34,300          70,268
                                         --------      --------      --------       --------        --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 157,205     $  38,271     $ 131,478      $ 345,501       $ 672,455
                                         ========      ========      ========       ========        ========
Year Ended December 31, 2001:
  United States......................   $ 132,793     $  19,572     $ 129,639      $ 172,225       $ 454,229
  Argentina..........................      13,182         2,465        36,237         46,427          98,311
  Canada.............................          29            97        12,707         23,215          36,048
  Africa and other...................         706         1,960        41,446         13,860          57,972
                                         --------      --------      --------       --------        --------
    Total costs incurred.............   $ 146,710     $  24,094     $ 220,029      $ 255,727       $ 646,560
                                         ========      ========      ========       ========        ========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The Company has not included asset  retirement  obligation  accruals in the
     costs incurred for oil and gas producing  activities presented in the table
     above.  During the years  ended  December  31,  2003 and 2001,  the Company
     accrued  $46.7  million and $1.0 million of asset  retirement  obligations,
     respectively,  associated  with new wells and  changes  in  estimates.  The
     Company did not accrue any increases to asset retirement obligations during
     the  year  ended  December  31,  2002.  See  Notes  B and L for  additional
     information regarding the Company's asset retirement obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>








                                       88

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


Results of Operations

     Information  about the  Company's  results  of  operations  for oil and gas
producing  activities by geographic  operating segment is presented in Note R of
the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

     The estimates of the  Company's  proved oil and gas reserves as of December
31, 2003 and 2002,  which are located in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada,
Gabon,  South  Africa  and  Tunisia,   were  based  on  evaluations  audited  by
independent  petroleum  engineers with respect to the Company's major properties
and prepared by the Company's  engineers  with respect to all other  properties.
The  estimates of the  Company's  proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31,
2001 were  prepared by the  Company's  engineers.  Reserves  were  estimated  in
accordance with guidelines  established by the SEC and the Financial  Accounting
Standards Board, which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing
economic  and  operating  conditions  with  no  provision  for  price  and  cost
escalations  except by  contractual  arrangements.  The reserve  estimates as of
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 utilize respective oil prices of $31.10, $29.67
and $18.88 per Bbl  (reflecting  adjustments  for oil quality),  respective  NGL
prices of $20.26, $19.01 and $11.58 per Bbl, and respective gas prices of $4.23,
$3.37 and $2.21 per Mcf (reflecting  adjustments for Btu content, gas processing
and shrinkage).

     Oil  and  gas   reserve   quantity   estimates   are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.

     The  following  table  provides a rollforward  of total proved  reserves by
geographic  area and in total for the years ended  December 31,  2003,  2002 and
2001, as well as proved developed reserves by geographic area and in total as of
the beginning and end of each respective year:





                                       89

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 2003                             2002                            2001
                                   ------------------------------   -----------------------------    -----------------------------
                                     Oil                             Oil                               Oil
                                   & NGLs        Gas                & NGLs        Gas                & NGLs       Gas
Total Proved Reserves:             (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE     (MBbls)      (MMcf)     MBOE     (MBbls)     (MMcf)     MBOE
                                   --------   ---------   -------   --------   ---------   ------    -------   ---------   -------
<S>                                <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............   337,631   1,483,971   584,960    279,146   1,474,090   524,829   266,802   1,354,327   492,523
Revisions of previous estimates..    36,823      94,759    52,616     61,529       5,983    62,525    (1,179)     41,039     5,661
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     4,422      57,124    13,942      8,634      83,361    22,528    24,943      63,113    35,462
New discoveries and extensions...       250      80,769    13,712      4,364       5,349     5,255     4,442      93,220    19,979
Production.......................   (16,375)   (162,647)  (43,483)   (16,042)    (84,812)  (30,177)  (15,862)    (77,609)  (28,796)
                                   --------   ---------   -------    -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............   362,751   1,553,976   621,747    337,631   1,483,971   584,960   279,146   1,474,090   524,829

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1...............    31,532     532,081   120,211     35,669     471,150   114,193    35,843     408,282   103,890
Revisions of previous estimates..     2,027      44,064     9,372     (4,954)     47,829     3,017      (932)      4,460      (189)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -         -          -           -         -         170      31,700     5,453
New discoveries and extensions...     3,562       8,068     4,907      3,985      41,652    10,927     4,354      58,538    14,110
Production.......................    (3,652)    (34,357)   (9,378)    (3,168)    (28,550)   (7,926)   (3,766)    (31,830)   (9,071)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   --------    -------
Balance, December 31.............    33,469     549,856   125,112     31,532     532,081   120,211    35,669     471,150   114,193

CANADA
Balance, January 1...............     2,361     119,328    22,249      2,659     132,061    24,669     4,066     132,919    26,219
Revisions of previous estimates..       344     (14,920)   (2,143)        24      (1,150)     (167)      212      15,067     2,723
New discoveries and extensions...        73       4,630       845         68       6,070     1,080        81       5,644     1,022
Production.......................      (371)    (15,209)   (2,906)      (390)    (17,653)   (3,333)     (671)    (18,426)   (3,742)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -         -          -           -         -      (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............     2,407      93,829    18,045      2,361     119,328    22,249     2,659     132,061    24,669

AFRICA
Balance, January 1...............     9,320         -       9,320      7,685         -       7,685     5,552         -       5,552
Revisions of previous estimates..    (1,817)        -      (1,817)       790         -         790       -           -         -
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -         -          -           -         -       2,133         -       2,133
New discoveries and extensions...    17,374         -      17,374        845         -         845       -           -         -
Production.......................      (723)        -        (723)       -           -         -         -           -         -
                                   --------   ---------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    24,154         -      24,154      9,320         -       9,320     7,685        -        7,685

TOTAL
Balance, January 1...............   380,844   2,135,380   736,740    325,159   2,077,301   671,376   312,263   1,895,528   628,184
Revisions of previous
  estimates (a)..................    37,377     123,903    58,028     57,389      52,662    66,165    (1,899)     60,566     8,195
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     4,422      57,124    13,942      8,634      83,361    22,528    27,246      94,813    43,048
New discoveries and extensions...    21,259      93,467    36,838      9,262      53,071    18,107     8,877     157,402    35,111
Production.......................   (21,121)   (212,213)  (56,490)   (19,600)   (131,015)  (41,436)  (20,299)   (127,865)  (41,609)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -         -          -           -         -      (1,029)     (3,143)   (1,553)
                                   --------   ---------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
Balance, December 31.............   422,781   2,197,661   789,058    380,844   2,135,380   736,740   325,159   2,077,301   671,376
                                   ========   =========   =======   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========

Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States..................   209,948   1,067,701   387,899    196,893   1,027,750   368,184   206,922   1,081,592   387,188
  Argentina......................    22,180     402,640    89,287     28,248     341,967    85,243    22,679     345,281    80,226
  Canada.........................     2,042      90,003    17,042      2,086      94,607    17,854     2,930      80,953    16,422
                                   --------  ----------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
    January 1....................   234,170   1,560,344   494,228    227,227   1,464,324   471,281   232,531   1,507,826   483,836
                                   ========  ==========   =======   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========

  United States..................   209,349   1,202,264   409,727    209,948   1,067,701   387,899   196,893   1,027,750   368,184
  Argentina......................    21,149     352,660    79,926     22,180     402,640    89,287    28,248     341,967    85,243
  Canada.........................     2,312      86,500    16,728      2,042      90,003    17,042     2,086      94,607    17,854
  Africa.........................     6,817         -       6,817        -           -         -         -           -         -
                                   --------  ----------   -------   --------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------  --------
    December 31..................   239,627   1,641,424   513,198    234,170   1,560,344   494,228   227,227   1,464,324   471,281
                                   ========  ==========   =======   ========   =========   =======   =======   =========  ========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The revisions of previous estimates above,  include revisions  attributable
     to changes in commodity  prices  totaling a 3,429 MBOE  increase,  a 28,643
     MBOE increase and a 24,970 MBOE  decrease for the years ended  December 31,
     2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>
                                       90

<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

     The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed by
applying  year-end  prices of oil and gas (with  consideration  of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  undiscounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil and gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the  difference.  The  discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  do not
include the effects of the  Company's  commodity  hedging  contracts.  Utilizing
December 31, 2003  commodity  prices held  constant  over each hedge  contract's
term, the net present value of the Company's  hedge  contracts,  less associated
estimated  income  taxes  and  discounted  at 10  percent,  was a  liability  of
approximately $191.0 million.

     Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like  those  shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.

     The following tables provide the standardized  measure of discounted future
cash flows by  geographic  area and in total for the years  ended  December  31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, as well as a rollforward in total for each respective year:




                                       91

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                            -----------------------------------------
                                                                2003           2002            2001
                                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                          (in thousands)
<S>                                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
UNITED STATES
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................    $18,239,318    $15,161,717    $ 8,222,573
   Future production costs..............................     (5,918,790)    (4,830,294)    (3,231,730)
   Future development costs.............................     (1,188,394)      (864,386)      (735,984)
   Future income tax expense............................     (3,057,968)    (2,325,946)      (598,612)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                              8,074,166      7,141,091      3,656,247
10% annual discount factor..............................     (4,276,678)    (3,684,400)    (1,691,118)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $ 3,797,488    $ 3,456,691    $ 1,965,129
                                                             ==========     ==========     ==========

ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................    $ 1,257,068    $   986,716    $ 1,070,664
   Future production costs..............................       (233,399)      (175,938)      (227,435)
   Future development costs.............................       (136,663)       (84,669)      (144,604)
   Future income tax expense............................       (161,683)      (143,845)       (45,140)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                725,323        582,264        653,485
10% annual discount factor..............................       (282,205)      (242,158)      (262,334)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $   443,118    $   340,106    $   391,151
                                                             ==========     ==========     ==========

CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................    $   520,976    $   502,260    $   301,002
   Future production costs..............................        (91,675)       (89,246)       (73,601)
   Future development costs.............................        (11,551)       (22,294)       (27,050)
   Future income tax expense............................        (72,895)       (87,363)       (10,771)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                344,855        303,357        189,580
10% annual discount factor..............................       (126,436)      (104,345)       (59,995)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $   218,419    $   199,012    $   129,585
                                                             ==========     ==========     ==========

AFRICA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................    $   713,459    $   279,896    $   149,777
   Future production costs..............................       (212,615)       (95,216)       (73,697)
   Future development costs.............................       (261,413)       (26,770)       (54,281)
   Future income tax expense............................        (17,062)       (10,912)           -
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                                222,369        146,998         21,799
10% annual discount factor..............................        (98,141)       (16,255)        (7,338)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $   124,228    $   130,743    $    14,461
                                                             ==========     ==========     ==========

TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows..................................    $20,730,821    $16,930,589    $ 9,744,016
   Future production costs..............................     (6,456,479)    (5,190,694)    (3,606,463)
   Future development costs (a).........................     (1,598,021)      (998,119)      (961,919)
   Future income tax expense............................     (3,309,608)    (2,568,066)      (654,523)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
                                                              9,366,713      8,173,710      4,521,111
10% annual discount factor..............................     (4,783,460)    (4,047,158)    (2,020,785)
                                                             ----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $ 4,583,253    $ 4,126,552    $ 2,500,326
                                                             ==========     ==========     ==========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  Includes   $208.1   million  of   undiscounted   future  asset   retirement
     expenditures  estimated as of December 31, 2003 using current  estimates of
     future abandonment  costs. See Notes B and L for corresponding  information
     regarding the Company's discounted asset retirement obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                       92

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

<TABLE>

                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                              -----------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Producing Activities                                  2003           2002          2001
                                                              -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                           <C>            <C>            <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs..............   $(1,136,520)   $  (489,338)   $  (631,365)
   Net changes in prices and production costs..............       670,165      2,042,575     (4,528,168)
   Extensions and discoveries..............................       413,777        152,253        184,454
   Development costs incurred during the period............       202,396        262,469        239,156
   Sales of minerals-in-place..............................           -              -          (23,372)
   Purchases of minerals-in-place..........................       198,442        187,460        201,535
   Revisions of estimated future development costs.........      (444,726)      (387,404)      (429,365)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates................       458,468        527,987         40,771
   Accretion of discount...................................       514,608        250,033        701,943
   Changes in production rates, timing and other...........       (71,557)        99,722       (274,689)
                                                               ----------      ---------     ----------
   Change in present value of future net revenues..........       805,053      2,645,757     (4,519,100)
   Net change in present value of future income taxes......      (348,352)    (1,019,531)     1,373,924
                                                               ----------     -----------    ----------
                                                                  456,701      1,626,226     (3,145,176)
   Balance, beginning of year..............................     4,126,552      2,500,326      5,645,502
                                                               ----------     ----------     ----------
   Balance, end of year....................................   $ 4,583,253    $  4,126,552   $ 2,500,326
                                                               ==========     ===========    ==========
</TABLE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Results

        The following table provides selected quarterly financial results for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                        Quarter
                                                   -------------------------------------------------------
                                                     First        Second       Third (a)      Fourth
                                                   ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
                                                          (in thousands, except per share data)
<C>                                                <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
2003
   Oil and gas revenues.........................   $ 281,156     $ 339,954     $ 332,515     $ 345,022
   Total revenues and other income..............   $ 285,295     $ 341,318     $ 332,909     $ 352,673
   Total costs and expenses.....................   $ 214,184     $ 261,503     $ 240,991     $ 264,741
   Net income:
      Income before cumulative effect of change
        in accounting principle.................   $  68,807     $  77,185     $ 191,813     $  57,374
      Cumulative effect of change in accounting
        principle, net of tax...................      15,413           -             -             -
                                                    --------      --------      --------      --------
      Net income................................   $  84,220     $  77,185     $ 191,813     $  57,374
                                                    ========      ========      ========      ========
   Net income per share:
      Basic:
        Income before cumulative effect of change
          in accounting principle...............   $     .59     $     .66     $    1.64     $     .49
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting
          principle, net of tax.................         .13           -             -             -
                                                    --------      --------      --------      --------
        Net income..............................   $     .72     $     .66     $    1.64     $     .49
                                                    ========      ========      ========      ========
      Diluted:
        Income before cumulative effect of change
          in accounting principle...............   $     .58     $     .65     $    1.62     $     .48
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting
          principle, net of tax.................         .13           -             -             -
                                                    --------      --------      --------      --------
        Net income..............................   $     .71     $     .65     $    1.62     $     .48
                                                    ========      ========      ========      ========

2002
   Oil and gas revenues.........................   $ 165,539     $ 172,430     $ 168,317     $ 195,494
   Total revenues and other income..............   $ 166,658     $ 174,338     $ 178,753     $ 197,685
   Total costs and expenses.....................   $ 169,027     $ 161,759     $ 177,454     $ 177,418
   Net income (loss)............................   $  (1,959)    $  11,142     $    (890)    $  18,420
   Net income (loss) per share:
      Basic ....................................   $    (.02)    $     .10     $    (.01)    $     .16
                                                    ========      ========      ========      ========

      Diluted...................................   $    (.02)    $     .10     $    (.01)    $     .16
                                                    ========      ========      ========      ========
<FN>
- -------------
(a)  The  Company's  third  quarter  results for 2003  include a $104.7  million
     adjustment to reduce United States deferred tax asset valuation allowances.
     See Note P for additional information regarding income taxes.
</FN>
</TABLE>



                                       93

<PAGE>



ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

       None.

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation  of  disclosure  controls and  procedures.  The  Company's  principal
executive officer and principal financial officer have evaluated, as required by
Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange  Act"),
the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures  (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule  13a-15(e))  as of the end of the period  covered by this annual  report on
Form  10-K.  Based on that  evaluation,  the  principal  executive  officer  and
principal  financial  officer  concluded  that the design and  operation  of the
Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures  are  effective in ensuring that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files
or  submits  under the  Exchange  Act is  recorded,  processed,  summarized  and
reported  within the time  periods  specified  in the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission's rules and forms.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting. There have been no changes
in the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting (as defined in Rule
13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the Company's last fiscal
quarter  that has  materially  affected or is  reasonably  likely to  materially
affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 13, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 13, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
               MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 13, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The  information  required by Item 201(d) of Regulation  S-K in response to
this item is  provided  in "Item 5. Market for  Registrant's  Common  Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters". The information required by Item 403 of Regulation
S-K in  response  to this item is set forth in the  Company's  definitive  proxy
statement for the annual meeting of  stockholders to be held on May 13, 2004 and
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

     The  information  required  in  response  to this  item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 13, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference.




                                       94

<PAGE>



                                     PART IV


ITEM 15.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included
in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31,
          2003, 2002 and 2001
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended
          December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,
          2003, 2002 and 2001
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years
          Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

     During the three months ended  December  31,  2003,  the Company  filed one
Current  Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2003.  The  Company's  October 30,
2003  Form 8-K  provided,  under  Items 7 and 12,  the  Company's  news  release
including attached schedules dated October 30, 2003 that announced the Company's
financial  and  operating  results  for the three and nine month  periods  ended
September 30, 2003, an operational  update and the Company's fourth quarter 2003
financial outlook.

(c)    Exhibits

     The exhibits to this Report required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c) are
listed below and in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedules

     No financial  statement  schedules are required to be filed as part of this
Report or they are inapplicable.


                                       95

<PAGE>


  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                             Description

3.1    -   Amended  and  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Company
           (incorporated   by   reference  to   Exhibit  3.1  to  the  Company's
           Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration
           No. 333-26951).

3.2    -   Restated Bylaws of the Company  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on  Form S-4,  dated June
           27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

4.1    -   Form of Certificate of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the
           Company  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's
           Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration
           No. 333-26951).

4.2    -   Rights  Agreement  dated  July  24,  2001,  between  the  Company and
           Continental  Stock  Transfer  &   Trust  Company,   as  Rights  Agent
           (incorporated   by  reference  to   Exhibit  4.1  to   the  Company's
           Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the
           SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.3    -   Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
           Stock  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.1 to the
           Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File No. 1-13245, filed
           with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.4    -   Indenture,  dated April 12,  1995,  between Pioneer USA (successor to
           Parker & Parsley  Petroleum Company  ("Parker &  Parsley")),  and The
           Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), as Trustee (incorporated
           by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to  Parker & Parsley's  Current Report on
           Form 8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

4.5    -   First  Supplemental Indenture,  dated  as of  August 7,  1997,  among
           Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as Trustee,  and Pioneer
           USA, with respect to  the indenture  identified above as  Exhibit 4.4
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No.
           1-13245).

4.6    -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
           Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas
           corporation,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  a New  York  banking
           association,  as  Trustee,  with respect to  the indenture identified
           above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.17 to
           the Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
           with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.7    -   Third  Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
           Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.  (as  successor  to  Pioneer  USA),   a Texas
           corporation, Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation, and The Chase
           Manhattan Bank,  a New York  banking  association,  as Trustee,  with
           respect   to   the   indenture  identified   above  as   Exhibit  4.4
           (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Current
           Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on January
           2, 1998).

4.8    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
           Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc.  (as  successor  to Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc., as
           successor to  Pioneer  USA),  a  Texas  corporation,  the Company,  a
           Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation, and The
           Chase Manhattan Bank, a New York  banking  association,  as  Trustee,
           with  respect to  the  indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.4
           (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current
           Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC on January
           2, 1998).




                                       96

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description

4.9    -   Guarantee,  dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to
           the $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 8-7/8% Senior Notes
           due 2005 and $150,000,000 vin aggregate vprincipalv amount of v8-1/4%
           Senior Notes due 2007 issued under thev indenture identified above as
           Exhibitv 4.4 v(incorporated by vreference to vExhibit v10.20 vto vthe
           Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, vFilev No. 1-13245,v filed with
           the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.10   -   Indenture,  dated January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank
           of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to
           the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No.
           1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

4.11   -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998, among the
           Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the  Subsidiary Guarantor, and The Bank of
           New York, as Trustee, with respect  to the indenture identified above
           as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 99.2  to the
           Company's and  Pioneer USA's  Current  Report on  Form  8-K, File No.
           1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

4.12   -   Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2000,  among the
           Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary guarantor and the Bank of New
           York, as Trustee,  with  respect to the Indenture,  dated January 13,
           1998, between the Company  and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, with
           respect  to  the   indenture  identified   above   as  Exhibit   4.10
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q  for the period  ended  March 31, 2000,  File No.
           1-13245).

4.13   -   Third Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of April 30,  2002, among the
           Company, Pioneer USA as the subsidiary guarantor and  The Bank of New
           York, as Trustee,  with respect  to the indenture identified above as
           Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to the
           Company's Quarterly  Report on Form  10-Q for the three months  ended
           March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).

4.14   -   Guarantee dated  as of January 13,  1998,  by Pioneer USA relating to
           the $350,000,000 in aggregate principal  amount of 6.50% Senior Notes
           Due 2008 issued under  the indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.10
           (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  99.5 to the  Company's and
           Pioneer USA's Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
           with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

4.15   -   Guarantee  dated as of January 13,  1998,  by Pioneer USA relating to
           the $250,000,000 in  aggregate principal amount of 7.20% Senior Notes
           Due 2028 issued  under the indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.10
           (incorporated by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.6  to the  Company's  and
           Pioneer USA's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
           with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

4.16   -   Guarantee,  dated as  of  April 11,  2000,  by  Pioneer  USA  as  the
           subsidiary guarantor relating to the $425,000,000 aggregate principal
           amount of 9-5/8%  Senior  Notes Due  April 1,  2010 issued  under the
           Second  Supplemental  Indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.12
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly
           Report on Form 10-Q for the  period ended  March 31,  2000,  File No.
           1-13245).

4.17   -   Guarantee dated as of April 30, 2002, by Pioneer USA  relating to the
           $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of  7.50% Senior Notes Due
           2012 issued under  the indenture  identified above  as  Exhibit  4.13
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly
           Report on  Form 10-Q  for the  period ended  March 31, 2002, File No.
            1-13245).

10.1H  -   1991  Stock  Option  Plan  of  Mesa  Inc.  ("Mesa")  (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 10(v) to Mesa's  Annual Report on  Form 10-K for
           the period ended December 31, 1991).

10.2H  -   1996  Incentive  Plan of  Mesa  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           10.28 to the  Company's Registration  Statement on  Form  S-4,  dated
           June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).



                                       97

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                            Description

10.3H  -   Parker & Parsley Long-Term  Incentive Plan,  dated February 19,  1991
           (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1 to  Parker &  Parsley's
           Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

10.4H  -   First  Amendment to  the Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
           dated August 23, 1991  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.2 to
           Parker   & Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,  dated
           February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.5H  -   The Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit  4.1 to  the Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-8,
           Registration No. 333-35087).

10.6H  -   First Amendment  to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
           as of November 23, 1998  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.72
           to  the  Company's Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  period  ended
           December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.7H  -   Second Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
           as of May 20, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.73 to the
           Company's  Annual Report  on Form  10-K for the period ended December
           31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.8H  -   Third Amendment to the  Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
           as of February 17, 2000  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.76
           to the  Company's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  for the  period ended
           December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.9H  -   The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 4.1 to  the Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-8,
           Registration No. 333-35165).

10.10H -   First  Amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated
           December 9, 1998  (incorporated by  reference to the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,  1998,  File No.
           1-13245).

10.11H -   Second Amendment to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated
           December 14,  1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74 to the
           Company's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K for  the period ended December
           31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.12H -   The Company's  Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration Statement on
           Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39153).

10.13H -   Omnibus Amendment to  Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included
           as part of the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated as of
           November  16,  1995,  between  Parker & Parsley  and  Named Executive
           Officers identified on  Schedule 1 setting  forth  additional details
           relating   to  the   Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive   Plan
           (incorporated  by reference  to Parker & Parsley's  Annual  Report on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

10.14H -   Severance Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
           and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,   together  with  a  schedule  identifying
           substantially  identical  agreements between  the Company and each of
           the other named  executive officers  identified on Schedule I for the
           purpose  of  defining  the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon  the
           termination of  the officer's  employment under certain circumstances
           (incorporated  by  reference  to   Exhibit  10.7  to  the   Company's
           Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q  for  the  period ended September 30,
           1997, File No. 1-13245).

10.15H -   Indemnification Agreement,  dated as of  August 8, 1997,  between the
           Company and Scott D. Sheffield,  together with a schedule identifying
           substantially  identical  agreements  between the Company and each of
           the   Company's  other   directors  and   named  executive   officers
           identified on  Schedule I  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
           to the Company's  Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the period ended
           September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).



                                       98

<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                            Description

10.16H -   Pioneer USA 40l(k) and Matching Plan,  Amended and Restated Effective
           as of January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.30 to
           the Company's Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the year ended December
           31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).

10.17  -   Agreement and  Plan of Merger  dated as of  September 20, 2001, among
           the Company, Pioneer USA and the Parker & Parsley  partnerships named
           therein  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's
           Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-59094).

10.18* -   $700,000,000 Credit Agreement,  dated as  of December 16, 2003, among
           the  Company,   as the  borrower,   JP  Morgan  Chase  Bank,  as  the
           Administrative Agent, Bank of America,  N.A.,  Bank One,  N.A., Fleet
           National  Bank and  Wells  Fargo Bank,  National  Association, as the
           Co-Documentation Agents, Wachovia Bank,  National Association, as the
           Syndication Agent and certain Lenders.

14.1   -   Code of  Business  Conduct and  Ethics  (incorporated by reference to
           Annex D of the Company's  Schedule 14A  Definitive  Proxy  Statement,
           File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on April 7, 2003).

21.1*  -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*  -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23.2*  -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.

23.3*  -   Consent of Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc.

31.1*  -   Chief  Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  302  of the
           Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2*  -   Chief  Financial  Officer  certification  under  Section  302  of the
           Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1*  -   Chief  Executive  Officer  certification  under  Section  906  of the
           Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*  -   Chief  Financial  Officer  certification  under  Section  906  of the
           Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H  Executive Compensation Plan or  Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
   14(c).


                                       99

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date: February 2, 2004       By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                  -------------------------------------------
                                 Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board,
                                   Chief Executive Officer, President and
                                   Assistant Secretary

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                          Title                    Date
         ---------                          -----                    ----
  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield        Chairman of the Board, Chief    February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------      Executive Officer, President
Scott D. Sheffield                and Assistant Secretary
                                  (principal executive officer)


  /s/ Timothy L. Dove           Executive Vice President,       February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------      Chief Financial Officer and
Timothy L. Dove                   Assistant Secretary


  /s/ Richard P. Dealy          Vice President and Chief        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------      Accounting Officer
Richard P. Dealy


  /s/ James R. Baroffio         Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ Edison C.  Buchanan       Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
Edison C.  Buchanan


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner       Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton         Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones            Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Linda K.  Lawson          Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
Linda K.  Lawson


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.    Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


  /s/ Robert A.  Solberg        Director                        February 2, 2004
- ----------------------------
Robert A.  Solberg




                                       100

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                            Page


3.1     -   Amended and  Restated Certificate of  Incorporation  of the
            Company  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 3.1 to the
            Company's Registration  Statement on  Form S-4,  dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated Bylaws  of the Company  (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit  3.2 to the Company's  Registration Statement on
            Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

4.1     -   Form of  Certificate of  Common  Stock,  par value $.01 per
            share, of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4,
            dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Rights Agreement dated July 24,  2001,  between the Company
            and Continental Stock  Transfer & Trust Company,  as Rights
            Agent  (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 4.1  to the
            Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form 8-A,  File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.3     -   Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating
            Preferred Stock  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to
            Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
            8-A, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).

4.4     -   Indenture,  dated  April  12,  1995,  between  Pioneer  USA
            (successor to Parker & Parsley Petroleum Company ("Parker &
            Parsley")),    and  The   Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National
            Association),  as  Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 4.1 to  Parker & Parsley's  Current  Report on Form
            8-K, dated April 12, 1995, File No. 1-10695).

4.5     -   First  Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997,
            among  Parker &  Parsley,  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as
            Trustee,  and  Pioneer USA,  with  respect to the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 4.4  (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 10.5 to  the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for  the period  ended  September 30,  1997,  File No.
            1-13245).

4.6     -   Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December 30,
            1997, among Pioneer USA,  a  Delaware corporation,  Pioneer
            NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation, and The Chase Manhattan
            Bank,  a  New York  banking  association,  as Trustee, with
            respect to the  indenture identified  above as  Exhibit 4.4
            (incorporated  by  reference  to   Exhibit  10.17  to   the
            Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File  No. 1-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.7     -   Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated  as  of December 30,
            1997, among Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor  to Pioneer
            USA),  a Texas corporation,  Pioneer DebtCo, Inc.,  a Texas
            corporation,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  a New York
            banking  association,  as  Trustee,  with  respect  to  the
            indenture identified  above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.18 to  the Company's Current Report
            on  Form 8-K,  File No.  1-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

4.8     -   Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December 30,
            1997, among Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc.  (as successor to Pioneer
            NewSub1,  Inc.,  as  successor to  Pioneer  USA),  a  Texas
            corporation, the Company,  a Delaware corporation,  Pioneer
            USA, a Delaware corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
            a New York banking association, as Trustee, with respect to
            the indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.4 (incorporated
            by reference  to Exhibit  10.19 to  the  Company's  Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 2, 1998).


                                       101

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                           Page


4.9     -   Guarantee,  dated as of  December 30, 1997,  by Pioneer USA
            relating to the  $150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount
            of  8-7/8%  Senior  Notes  due  2005  and  $150,000,000  in
            aggregate principal amount of 8-1/4% Senior  Notes due 2007
            issued  under the indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.4
            (incorporated  by   reference  to  Exhibit  10.20  to   the
            Company's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.10    -   Indenture, dated January 13, 1998,  between the Company and
            The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's and  Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

4.11    -   First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 13, 1998,
            among  the  Company,   Pioneer  USA,   as   the  Subsidiary
            Guarantor,  and  The  Bank of  New York,  as Trustee,  with
            respect  to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 4.10
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's
            and Pioneer  USA's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K, File No.
            1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

4.12    -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of April 11, 2000,
            among the Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary guarantor
            and the Bank of New York,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
            Indenture, dated January 13, 1998,  between the Company and
            The  Bank of  New York,  as Trustee,  with  respect  to the
            indenture identified above as  Exhibit 4.10   (incorporated
            by  reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to the  Company's Quarterly
            Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended  March 31, 2000,
            File No. 1-13245).

4.13    -   Third Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  April 30, 2002,
            among the Company, Pioneer USA as the  subsidiary guarantor
            and The Bank of New York,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture identified above as Exhibit 4.10 (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report
            on  Form 10-Q  for the  three  months ended March 31, 2002,
            File No. 1-13245).

4.14    -   Guarantee  dated as of  January 13,  1998,  by  Pioneer USA
            relating to the $350,000,000  in aggregate principal amount
            of 6.50%  Senior Notes  Due 2008 issued under the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 4.10 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.5 to the  Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

4.15    -   Guarantee  dated as of  January 13,  1998,  by  Pioneer USA
            relating to the $250,000,000  in aggregate principal amount
            of 7.20%  Senior Notes  Due 2028 issued under the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 4.10 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit 99.6 to the  Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

4.16    -   Guarantee,  dated as of  April 11,  2000, by Pioneer USA as
            the  subsidiary  guarantor  relating  to  the  $425,000,000
            aggregate principal amount of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April
            1, 2010  issued  under  the Second  Supplemental  Indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 4.12 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit  10.3 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2000, File No.1-13245).

4.17    -   Guarantee  dated as  of  April 30,  2002,  by  Pioneer  USA
            relating to the $150,000,000 in aggregate  principal amount
            of 7.50% Senior  Notes Due  2012 issued under the indenture
            identified above as Exhibit 4.13 (incorporated by reference
            to Exhibit  10.6 to  the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
            10-Q  for  the  period  ended  March  31,  2002,  File  No.
            1-13245).



                                       102

<PAGE>



Exhibit Index                                                            Page


10.1H   -   1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa Inc.  ("Mesa") (incorporated
            by reference to  Exhibit 10(v) to  Mesa's  Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1991).

10.2H   -   1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.28 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on
            Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.3H   -   Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan, dated February
            19,  1991  (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1 to
            Parker &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form S-8,
            Registration No. 33-38971).

10.4H   -   First Amendment to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive
            Plan,  dated August 23,  1991 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.2 to Parker & Parsley's  Registration  Statement
            on  Form S-1,  dated  February 28,  1992,  Registration No.
            33-46082).

10.5H   -   The  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit  4.1  to the  Company's  Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35087).

10.6H   -   First Amendment  to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective  as  of   November   23,  1998  (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 10.72 to  the Company's Annual Report
            on Form 10-K  for the period ended December 31, 1999,  File
            No. 1-13245).

10.7H   -   Second Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective as of May 20, 1999  (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.73 to the  Company's Annual  Report on Form 10-K
            for the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.8H   -   Third Amendment to the  Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
            effective  as  of   February  17,  2000   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit  10.76 to the Company's Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the period ended  December 31, 1999,  File
            No. 1-13245).

10.9H   -   The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by
            reference to  Exhibit 4.1  to  the  Company's  Registration
            Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.10H  -   First Amendment  to the  Company's  Employee Stock Purchase
            Plan, dated December 9, 1998  (incorporated by reference to
            the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1998, File No. 1-13245).

10.11H  -   Second  Amendment  to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase
            Plan, dated December 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 10.74 to the  Company's Annual  Report on Form 10-K
            for the period ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.12H  -   The  Company's  Deferred   Compensation   Retirement   Plan
            (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
            Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,  Registration   No.
            333-39153).

10.13H  -   Omnibus Amendment to  Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,
            included  as  part  of  the   Parker  &  Parsley  Long-Term
            Incentive  Plan,  dated as of  November 16,  1995,  between
            Parker & Parsley and Named Executive Officers identified on
            Schedule 1 setting forth additional details relating to the
            Parker & Parsley  Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Parker & Parsley's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
            for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-10695).


                                          103

<PAGE>




Exhibit Index                                                           Page

10.14H  -   Severance  Agreement,  dated as of August 8, 1997,  between
            the  Company  and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a
            schedule  identifying  substantially  identical  agreements
            between the Company and each of the  other named  executive
            officers  identified  on  Schedule I  for  the  purpose  of
            defining   the   payment  of  certain  benefits  upon   the
            termination  of  the  officer's  employment  under  certain
            circumstances (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the period
            ended September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).

10.15H  -   Indemnification  Agreement,  dated  as of  August 8,  1997,
            between the Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a
            schedule  identifying  substantially  identical  agreements
            between  the  Company  and  each  of  the  Company's  other
            directors  and  named  executive   officers  identified  on
            Schedule I  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
            the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for the period
            ended September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).

10.16H  -   Pioneer USA 40l(k) and Matching Plan,  Amended and Restated
            Effective as of January 1, 2002  (incorporated by reference
            to  Exhibit 10.30  to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
            10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, File No.
            1-13245).

10.17   -   Agreement  and  Plan of  Merger  dated  as of September 20,
            2001,  among the  Company,  Pioneer   USA and the Parker &
            Parsley   partnerships  named  therein   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 2.1  to the  Company's  Registration
            Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-59094).

10.18*  -   $700,000,000  Credit  Agreement,  dated as of December 16,
            2003, among the Company, as the borrower,  JP Morgan Chase
            Bank, as the  Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A.,
            Bank One, N.A., Fleet National Bank  and Wells Fargo Bank,
            National  Association,  as  the  Co-Documentation  Agents,
            Wachovia Bank, National  Association,  as the  Syndication
            Agent and certain Lenders.

14.1    -   Code  of  Business  Conduct  and  Ethics  (incorporated by
            reference  to  Annex  D  of  the  Company's  Schedule  14A
            Definitive  Proxy Statement,  File No. 1-13245, filed with
            the SEC on April 7, 2003).

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23.2*   -   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.

23.3*   -   Consent of Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc.

31.1*   -   Chief Executive Officer certification under Section 302 of
            the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2*   -   Chief Financial Officer certification under Section 302 of
            the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1*   -   Chief Executive Officer certification under Section 906 of
            the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*   -   Chief Financial Officer certification under Section 906 of
            the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
- ---------------
*   Filed herewith

H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant to Item
    14(c).



                                       104

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>creditag.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 10.18
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.18



                                                               December 16, 2003

                        5-YEAR REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT




                                   dated as of




                                December 16, 2003


                                      among



                       PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY,


                                 as the Borrower



                              JPMORGAN CHASE BANK,
                             as Administrative Agent

                 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                                as Issuing Banks


                                       and
                            The Lenders Party Hereto


                          ----------------------------


                      WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                              as Syndication Agent


        BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., BANK ONE, N.A., FLEET NATIONAL BANK, WELLS
                        FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                           as Co-Documentation Agents



                          ----------------------------


         J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. and WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC,
                      as Co-Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                           Page:


ARTICLE I Definitions....................................................    1

      Section 1.01      Defined Terms....................................    1
      Section 1.02      Classification of Loans and Borrowings...........   17
      Section 1.03      Terms Generally..................................   17
      Section 1.04      Accounting Terms; GAAP...........................   18

ARTICLE II The Credits...................................................   18

      Section 2.01      Commitments......................................   18
      Section 2.02      Commitment Increase..............................   18
      Section 2.03      Revolving Loans and Borrowings...................   20
      Section 2.04      Requests for Revolving Borrowings................   20
      Section 2.05      Swingline Loans..................................   21
      Section 2.06      Letters of Credit................................   23
      Section 2.07      Funding of Borrowings............................   26
      Section 2.08      Interest Elections...............................   27
      Section 2.09      Termination and Reduction of Commitments.........   28
      Section 2.10      Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.............   29
      Section 2.11      Prepayment of Loans..............................   30
      Section 2.12      Fees.............................................   30
      Section 2.13      Interest.........................................   31
      Section 2.14      Alternate Rate of Interest.......................   32
      Section 2.15      Increased Costs..................................   32
      Section 2.16      Break Funding Payments...........................   33
      Section 2.17      Taxes............................................   34
      Section 2.18      Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment;
                         Sharing of Set-offs.............................   35
      Section 2.19      Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders...   37

ARTICLE III Representations and Warranties...............................   38

      Section 3.01      Organization; Powers.............................   38
      Section 3.02      Authorization; Enforceability....................   38
      Section 3.03      Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.............   38
      Section 3.04      Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change..   38
      Section 3.05      Properties.......................................   39
      Section 3.06      Litigation and Environmental Matters.............   39
      Section 3.07      Compliance with Laws.............................   39
      Section 3.08      Investment and Holding Company Status............   39
      Section 3.09      Taxes............................................   39
      Section 3.10      ERISA............................................   39
      Section 3.11      Disclosure.......................................   40

ARTICLE IV Conditions....................................................   40

      Section 4.01      Effective Date...................................   40
      Section 4.02      Each Credit Event................................   41

                                       i

<PAGE>


                                                               December 16, 2003


ARTICLE V Affirmative Covenants..........................................   41

      Section 5.01      Financial Statements and Other Information.......   41
      Section 5.02      Notices of Material Events.......................   43
      Section 5.03      Existence; Conduct of Business...................   43
      Section 5.04      Payment of Obligations...........................   43
      Section 5.05      Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.............   44
      Section 5.06      Books and Records; Inspection Rights.............   44
      Section 5.07      Compliance with Laws.............................   44
      Section 5.08      Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit............   44
      Section 5.09      Operations.......................................   44

ARTICLE VI Negative Covenants............................................   44

      Section 6.01      Indebtedness.....................................   44
      Section 6.02      Liens............................................   45
      Section 6.03      Fundamental Changes..............................   45
      Section 6.04      Financial Covenants..............................   46
      Section 6.05      Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and
                          Acquisitions...................................   46
      Section 6.06      Swap Agreements..................................   46
      Section 6.07      Transactions with Affiliates.....................   47
      Section 6.08      Restrictive Agreements...........................   47

ARTICLE VII Events of Default............................................   47


ARTICLE VIII The Administrative Agent....................................   50

      Section 8.01      Administrative Agent.............................   50
      Section 8.02      The Co-Arrangers, Joint Bookrunners, Syndication
                          Agent and Co-Documentation Agents..............   51

ARTICLE IX Miscellaneous.................................................   52

      Section 9.01      Notices..........................................   52
      Section 9.02      Waivers; Amendments..............................   53
      Section 9.03      Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver...............   53
      Section 9.04      Successors and Assigns...........................   55
      Section 9.05      Survival.........................................   58
      Section 9.06      Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.........   58
      Section 9.07      Severability.....................................   58
      Section 9.08      Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to
                          Service of Process.............................   59
      Section 9.09      WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.............................   59
      Section 9.10      Headings.........................................   60
      Section 9.11      Confidentiality..................................   60
      Section 9.12      Interest Rate Limitation.........................   61
      Section 9.13      USA Patriot Act Notice...........................   61

Schedules:

Schedule 2.01     Commitments
Schedule 2.13     Swingline Loan Rate Calculation
Schedule 3.06     Disclosed Matters
Schedule 6.02     Liens
Schedule 6.08     Existing Restrictive Agreements


                                       ii

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Exhibits:

Exhibit A         Form of Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit B         Notice of Commitment Increase
Exhibit C         Form of Opinion of Borrower's Counsel
Exhibit D         Form of Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit E         Form of Promissory Note



                                      iii



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     5-Year  Revolving  Credit  Agreement  dated as of December 16, 2003,  among
Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company,  a Delaware  corporation,  as the Borrower,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, as  Administrative  Agent,  JPMorgan Chase Bank and Bank of
America,  N.A.,  as Issuing  Banks,  the Lenders party  hereto,  Wachovia  Bank,
National  Association,  as Syndication  Agent, Bank of America,  N.A., Bank One,
N.A.,  Fleet  National  Bank,  Wells  Fargo  Bank,  National   Association,   as
Co-Documentation  Agents,  and J.P. Morgan  Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC, as Co-Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners.

     The parties hereto agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I
                                  DEFINITIONS

     Section 1.01 Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement,  the following terms
have the meanings specified below:

     "ABR",  when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing,  refers to whether
such Loan, or the Loans  comprising  such Borrowing,  are bearing  interest at a
rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.

     "Adjusted LIBO Rate" means,  with respect to any  Eurodollar  Borrowing for
any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards,  if necessary,
to the next  1/16 of 1%)  equal to (a) the LIBO  Rate for such  Interest  Period
multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.

     "Administrative  Agent"  means  JPMorgan  Chase  Bank,  in its  capacity as
administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.

     "Administrative  Questionnaire" means an Administrative  Questionnaire in a
form supplied by the Administrative Agent.

     "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person,  another Person that
directly,  or  indirectly  through  one or more  intermediaries,  Controls or is
Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.

     "Agreement" means this 5-Year Revolving Credit  Agreement,  as the same may
be amended, modified, restated, or replaced from time to time.

     "Alternate  Base Rate"  means,  for any day, a rate per annum  equal to the
greater  of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the  Federal  Funds
Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate
Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds  Effective Rate
shall be effective  from and including the effective  date of such change in the
Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.

     "Applicable  Percentage"  means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage
of the Commitments  represented by such Lender's Commitment.  If the Commitments
have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based
upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.

                                       1

<PAGE>


                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Applicable  Margin"  means,  for any day,  with respect to any  Eurodollar
Loan, or with respect to the commitment fees payable hereunder,  as the case may
be,  the  Applicable  Margin  per  annum  set  forth  below  under  the  caption
"Eurodollar Spread" or "Commitment Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the
ratings by Moody's and S&P,  respectively,  applicable on such date to the Index
Debt:
<TABLE>
       ======================   =======================   =====================
         Index Debt Ratings       Commitment Fee Rate       Eurodollar Spread
       ----------------------   -----------------------   ---------------------
<S>    <C>                      <C>                       <C>
             Category 1                 0.15 %                   0.625 %
             = Baa1/BBB+
       ----------------------   -----------------------   ---------------------
             Category 2                 0.20 %                   0.750 %
              Baa2/BBB
       ----------------------   -----------------------   ---------------------
             Category 3                 0.25 %                   1.000 %
              Baa3/BBB-
       ----------------------   -----------------------   ---------------------
             Category 4                 0.30 %                   1.250 %
               Ba1/BB+
       ----------------------   -----------------------   ---------------------
             Category 5                 0.40 %                   1.750 %
              = Ba2/BB
       ======================   =======================   =====================
</TABLE>

     Applicable Margin for ABR Loans is zero percent (0%).

     For  purposes of the  foregoing,  if both Moody's and S&P shall not have in
effect a rating for the Index Debt  (other  than by reason of the  circumstances
referred to in the last sentence of this  definition),  then such agencies shall
be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5. If the ratings established
or deemed to have been  established  by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall
fall within different  Categories,  the Applicable  Margin shall be based on the
higher  of the  two  ratings,  unless  one of the  two  ratings  is two or  more
Categories  lower than the other,  in which case the Applicable  Margin shall be
determined  by reference to the Category next above that of the lower of the two
ratings;  provided,  however,  that if only one of  Moody's  or S&P  shall  have
established  a  rating,  then  the  Applicable  Margin  shall be  determined  by
reference to such available rating. If the ratings established or deemed to have
been  established  by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other
than as a result  of a change in the  rating  system of  Moody's  or S&P),  such
change shall be  effective as of the date on which it is first  announced by the
applicable rating agency,  irrespective of when notice of such change shall have
been furnished by the Borrower to the Agent and the Lenders  pursuant to Section
5.01 or otherwise.  Each change in the Applicable  Margin shall apply during the
period  commencing on the  effective  date of such change and ending on the date
immediately  preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating
system of Moody's or S&P shall  change,  or if either such rating  agency  shall
cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt  obligations,  the Borrower
and the  Lenders  shall  negotiate  in good  faith to amend this  definition  to
reflect such changed  rating system or the  unavailability  of ratings from such
rating  agency  and,  pending  the  effectiveness  of any  such  amendment,  the
Applicable  Margin shall be determined by reference to the rating of such agency
most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.

     "Approved Fund" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.

                                       2


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Assignment and Assumption" means an assignment and assumption entered into
by a Lender and an  assignee  (with the  consent of any party  whose  consent is
required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form
of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.

     "Availability  Period"  means the period from and  including  the Effective
Date  to but  excluding  the  earlier  of the  Maturity  Date  and  the  date of
termination of the Commitments.

     "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve  System of the
United States of America.

     "Borrower"  means  the  Pioneer  Natural  Resources   Company,  a  Delaware
corporation.

     "Borrowing"  means  Revolving  Loans of the same Type,  made,  converted or
continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar  Loans,  as to which a
single  Interest  Period is in effect or Swingline  Loans,  as to which a single
Interest Period is in effect.

     "Borrowing  Request"  means  a  request  by the  Borrower  for a  Revolving
Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.04.

     "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
which  commercial  banks in New York City or Texas are authorized or required by
law to remain closed;  provided that,  when used in connection with a Eurodollar
Loan,  the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not
open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.

     "Capital  Lease  Obligations"  of any Person means the  obligations of such
Person to pay rent or other  amounts  under  any lease of (or other  arrangement
conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof,
which  obligations  are required to be  classified  and accounted for as capital
leases on a balance  sheet of such  Person  under  GAAP,  and the amount of such
obligations  shall be the  capitalized  amount thereof  determined in accordance
with GAAP.

     "Certifying Officer" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(c).

     "Change in Control"  means (a) the  acquisition  of ownership,  directly or
indirectly,  beneficially  or of  record,  by any  Person or group  (within  the
meaning of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities
and Exchange  Commission  thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of Equity
Interests  representing  more than 35% of the  aggregate  ordinary  voting power
represented by the issued and outstanding  Equity Interests of the Borrower;  or
(b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board
of directors  of the  Borrower by Persons who were neither (i)  nominated by the
board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated.

     "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after
the date of this Agreement,  (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in
the  interpretation or application  thereof by any Governmental  Authority after
the date of this  Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or the Issuing Banks
(or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by
such Lender's or the Issuing Banks' holding companies, if any) with any request,
guideline  or  directive  (whether  or not  having  the  force  of  law)  of any
Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.

                                       3

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "CI Lender" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(a).

     "Class", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether
such Loan,  or the Loans  comprising  such  Borrowing,  are  Revolving  Loans or
Swingline Loans.

     "Co-Arrangers"  means both J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC.

     "Code"  means the Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as amended from time to
time.

     "Commitment"  means,  with respect to each Lender,  the  commitment of such
Lender to make  Revolving  Loans and to  acquire  participations  in  Letters of
Credit and Swingline Loans  hereunder,  expressed as an amount  representing the
maximum  aggregate  amount of such Lender's Credit Exposure  hereunder,  as such
commitment  may be (a) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.02, (b)
reduced from time to time  pursuant to Section 2.09, or (c) reduced or increased
from time to time  pursuant  to  assignments  by or to such  Lender  pursuant to
Section 9.04.  The initial  amount of each  Lender's  Commitment is set forth on
Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender
shall have assumed its Commitment,  as applicable.  The initial aggregate amount
of the Lenders' Commitments is $700,000,000.

     "Commitment Increase" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(a).

     "Commitment  Increase  Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section
2.02(b).

     "Consolidated  EBITDAX"  means,  with  respect  to  the  Borrower  and  its
Restricted  Subsidiaries,  for any  period,  Consolidated  Net  Income  for that
period,  plus (a) to the extent included in determining  Consolidated Net Income
for that period,  (i) the aggregate amount of Consolidated  Interest Expense for
that period, (ii) the aggregate amount of letter of credit fees paid during that
period,  (iii) the aggregate amount of income tax expense for that period,  (iv)
non-cash  extraordinary  losses,  (v) losses on the disposition of assets,  (vi)
losses or charges under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 133 (and any
statements  replacing,  modifying or superceding such statement)  resulting from
the net change in the Borrower's (or any Restricted Subsidiary's) mark-to-market
portfolio of commodity  price risk  management  activities and (vii) all amounts
attributable  to  depreciation,  depletion,  amortization,  and  other  non-cash
charges and  expenses  for that period and (viii)  exploration  and  abandonment
expenses,  minus (b) to the extent  included  in  determining  Consolidated  Net
Income for that  period,  (i)  non-cash  extraordinary  income (ii) gains on the
disposition  of assets and (iii)  non-cash  gains under  Statement  of Financial
Accounting Standard 133 (and any statements replacing,  modifying or superceding
such  statement)  resulting from the net change in Borrower's (or any Restricted
Subsidiary's)  mark-to-market  portfolio  of  commodity  price  risk  management
activities during that period,  in each case determined on a consolidated  basis
in accordance with GAAP and without duplication of amounts.

                                       4


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, with respect to the Borrower and its
Restricted  Subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis for any period, the sum of (i)
gross interest expense  (including all cash and accrued interest expense) of the
Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period on a consolidated basis
in accordance with GAAP, including to the extent included in interest expense in
accordance with GAAP (x) the  amortization of debt discounts and (y) the portion
of any payments or accruals with respect to Capital Leases allocable to interest
expense  and  (ii)  capitalized  interest  of the  Borrower  and its  Restricted
Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.

     "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, net income of the Borrower
and its Restricted Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance
with GAAP.

     "Consolidated  Tangible Net Worth" means, at any date, (i) the Consolidated
shareholders' equity of Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries  (determined in
accordance with GAAP); less (ii) the amount of Consolidated intangible assets of
Borrower and its Restricted  Subsidiaries,  provided, that to the extent oil and
gas mineral leases are classified as intangible  assets under GAAP, for purposes
of this definition,  those assets will be treated as tangible assets; less (iii)
the other  comprehensive  income  component of  consolidated  shareholders'  net
equity of Borrower  and its  Restricted  Subsidiaries  attributable  to deferred
hedge gains;  plus (iv) the aggregate  amount of any non-cash  write downs under
Statements of Financial  Accounting  Standards  Nos. 19, 109, 142, and 144, (and
any  statements  replacing,  modifying  or  superceding  such  statement),  on a
Consolidated  basis, by Borrower and its Restricted  Subsidiaries after December
31, 2002,  net of  associated  taxes;  plus (v) the other  comprehensive  income
component  of  consolidated   shareholders'  net  equity  of  Borrower  and  its
Restricted Subsidiaries attributable to deferred hedge losses.

     "Control"  means the  possession,  directly or indirectly,  of the power to
direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether
through  the  ability to  exercise  voting  power,  by  contract  or  otherwise.
"Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.

     "Credit Exposure" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of
the outstanding  principal amount of such Lender's Loans and its LC Exposure and
Swingline Exposure at such time.

     "Default"  means  any  event or  condition  which  constitutes  an Event of
Default or which  upon  notice,  lapse of time or both  would,  unless  cured or
waived, become an Event of Default.

     "Disclosed  Matters"  means  the  actions,  suits and  proceedings  and the
environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.

     "dollars" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.

     "Effective  Date"  means  the date on which  the  conditions  specified  in
Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).

     "Environmental Laws" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances,
orders, decrees, judgments,  injunctions,  notices or binding agreements issued,
promulgated or entered into by any Governmental  Authority,  relating in any way
to the  environment,  preservation  or  reclamation  of natural  resources,  the
management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material.

                                       5


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Environmental  Liability"  means any  liability,  contingent  or otherwise
(including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines,
penalties  or  indemnities),  of the  Borrower  or any  Subsidiary  directly  or
indirectly  resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law,
(b)  the  generation,  use,  handling,  transportation,  storage,  treatment  or
disposal of any Hazardous  Materials,  (c) exposure to any Hazardous  Materials,
(d) the  release or  threatened  release  of any  Hazardous  Materials  into the
environment  or (e) any  contract,  agreement  or other  consensual  arrangement
pursuant to which  liability  is assumed or imposed  with  respect to any of the
foregoing.

     "Equity  Interests" means shares of capital stock,  partnership  interests,
membership  interests in a limited liability company,  beneficial interests in a
trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options
or other  rights  entitling  the holder  thereof to purchase or acquire any such
equity interest.

     "ERISA"  means the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
amended from time to time.

     "ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated)
that, together with the Borrower,  is treated as a single employer under Section
414(b) or (c) of the Code or,  solely for  purposes  of Section 302 of ERISA and
Section 412 of the Code,  is treated as a single  employer  under Section 414 of
the Code.

     "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable  event", as defined in Section 4043
of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than
an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived);  (b) the existence  with
respect  to any Plan of an  "accumulated  funding  deficiency"  (as  defined  in
Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the
filing  pursuant to Section  412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an
application  for a waiver of the minimum  funding  standard  with respect to any
Plan; (d) the  incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA  Affiliates of any
liability  under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the  termination of any Plan;
(e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA  Affiliate  from the PBGC or a plan
administrator  of any notice  relating to an intention to terminate  any Plan or
Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer  any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the
Borrower or any of its ERISA  Affiliates  of any  liability  with respect to the
withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the
receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice,  or the receipt by
any  Multiemployer  Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice,
concerning  the  imposition of Withdrawal  Liability or a  determination  that a
Multiemployer  Plan is, or is expected to be,  insolvent  or in  reorganization,
within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.

     "Eurodollar",  when used in reference to any Loan or  Borrowing,  refers to
whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing,  are bearing interest
at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.

                                       6


<PAGE>


                                                               December 16, 2003

     "Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Article VII.

     "Excluded  Taxes"  means,  with respect to the  Administrative  Agent,  any
Lender, the Issuing Banks or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or
on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder,  (a) income or franchise
taxes by the United States of America,  or by the jurisdiction under the laws of
which such  recipient is organized or in which its  principal  office is located
or,  in the case of any  Lender,  in which  its  applicable  lending  office  is
located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or
any  similar  tax  imposed by any other  jurisdiction  in which the  Borrower is
located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant
to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b),  any withholding tax that is
imposed  on  amounts  payable to such  Foreign  Lender at the time such  Foreign
Lender  becomes  a party  to  this  Agreement  whether  upon  execution  or upon
assignment  (or  designates  a new lending  office) or is  attributable  to such
Foreign Lender's  failure to comply with Section  2.17(e),  except to the extent
that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor,  if any) was entitled, at the time of
designation  of a new  lending  office (or  assignment),  to receive  additional
amounts  from the  Borrower  with  respect to such  withholding  tax pursuant to
Section 2.17(a).

     "Executive Officer" means any Financial Officer,  executive vice president,
officer  ranking above an executive  vice  president and any officer that is the
functional equivalent of the foregoing.

     "Existing Credit Agreement" means that certain Credit  Agreement,  dated as
of May 31, 2000, among the Borrower,  Bank of America,  N.A., as  Administrative
Agent, Credit Suisse First Boston, as Documentation Agent, Chase Manhattan Bank,
as Syndication Agent, and the lenders parties thereto.

     "Existing  Letters of Credit"  means the  Letters  of Credit  described  on
Schedule  1.01 that were  issued by Bank of  America,  N.A.  under the  Existing
Credit  Agreement and that shall be  transferred to and deemed issued under this
Agreement,  as such  Letters of Credit  may be  renewed or amended  from time to
time.

     "Federal Funds  Effective  Rate" means,  for any day, the weighted  average
(rounded  upwards,  if  necessary,  to the  next  1/100  of 1%) of the  rates on
overnight Federal funds  transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System
arranged by Federal funds brokers,  as published on the next succeeding Business
Day by the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  of New  York,  or,  if  such  rate is not so
published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded  upwards,  if
necessary,  to the  next  1/100 of 1%) of the  quotations  for such day for such
transactions  received  by the  Administrative  Agent from three  Federal  funds
brokers of recognized standing selected by it.

     "Financial  Officer" means, with respect to any Person, the chief financial
officer,  principal accounting officer,  treasurer or controller of such Person.
The  term  "Financial  Officer"  without  reference  to a  Person  shall  mean a
Financial Officer of the Borrower.

     "Foreign  Lender"  means any Lender that is  organized  under the laws of a
jurisdiction  other than that in which the Borrower is located.  For purposes of
this  definition,  the United  States of  America,  each State  thereof  and the
District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.

                                       7


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting  principles in the United States
of America.

     "Governmental  Authority"  means the  government  of the  United  States of
America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or
local,  and any agency,  authority,  instrumentality,  regulatory  body,  court,
central  bank or  other  entity  exercising  executive,  legislative,  judicial,
taxing,  regulatory  or  administrative  powers or functions of or pertaining to
government.

     "Guarantee"  of or by any Person (the  "guarantor")  means any  obligation,
contingent or otherwise,  of the guarantor  guaranteeing  or having the economic
effect of guaranteeing  any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person
(the  "primary  obligor") in any manner,  whether  directly or  indirectly,  and
including any obligation of the guarantor,  direct or indirect,  (a) to purchase
or pay (or  advance  or  supply  funds  for the  purchase  or  payment  of) such
Indebtedness  or other  obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds
for the purchase of) any  security for the payment  thereof,  (b) to purchase or
lease property,  securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of
such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, or (c) to maintain
working capital,  equity capital or any other financial  statement  condition or
liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such
Indebtedness or other  obligation,  provided,  that the term Guarantee shall not
include  endorsements  for  collection  or  deposit  in the  ordinary  course of
business.

     "Hazardous  Materials"  means all  explosive or  radioactive  substances or
wastes  and all  hazardous  or toxic  substances,  wastes  or other  pollutants,
including  petroleum or petroleum  distillates,  asbestos or asbestos containing
materials,  polychlorinated  biphenyls,  radon gas, infectious or medical wastes
and all other  substances  or wastes of any  nature  regulated  pursuant  to any
Environmental Law.

     "Highest  Lawful  Rate" means,  with  respect to each  Lender,  the maximum
nonusurious  interest rate, if any, that at any time or from time to time may be
contracted for, taken,  reserved charged or received on the  Indebtedness  under
laws  applicable  to such Lender which are presently in effect or, to the extent
allowed by law, under such  applicable laws which may hereafter be in effect and
which allow a higher  maximum  nonusurious  interest rate than  applicable  laws
allow as of the date hereof.

     "Hydrocarbon Interests" means all rights, titles, interests and estates now
owned or hereafter  acquired in and to oil and gas leases,  oil, gas and mineral
leases,  or other  liquid or gaseous  hydrocarbon  leases,  mineral fee or lease
interests,  farm-outs,  overriding  royalty  and royalty  interests,  net profit
interests,  oil  payments,  production  payment  interests  and similar  mineral
interests, including any reserved or residual interest of whatever nature.

     "Hydrocarbons"  means oil, gas,  casinghead  gas,  condensate,  distillate,
liquid  hydrocarbons,  gaseous  hydrocarbons,  all products refined,  separated,
settled and dehydrated therefrom and all products refined therefrom,  including,
without limitation, kerosene, liquefied petroleum gas, refined lubricating oils,
diesel fuel,  drip  gasoline,  natural  gasoline,  helium,  sulfur and all other
minerals.

                                       8


<PAGE<

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Indebtedness"  of  any  Person  means,   without   duplication,   (a)  all
obligations  of such Person for  borrowed  money,  (b) all  obligations  of such
Person evidenced by bonds,  debentures,  notes or similar  instruments,  (c) all
obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property
or services (other than customary  payment terms taken in the ordinary course of
business), (d) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of
such Indebtedness has an existing right,  contingent or otherwise, to be secured
by) any Lien on property  owned or acquired by such  Person,  whether or not the
Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed limited,  however to the lesser of
(1) the amount of its liability or (2) the book value of such property,  (e) all
Guarantees  by such Person of  Indebtedness  of others,  (f) all  Capital  Lease
Obligations of such Person,  (g) all  obligations,  contingent or otherwise,  of
such  Person as an account  party in  respect  of  letters  of  credit,  (h) all
obligations,  contingent  or  otherwise,  of such  Person in respect of bankers'
acceptances,  (i) the amount of deferred revenue  attributed to any forward sale
of production  for which such Person has received  payment in advance other than
on  ordinary  trade  terms,  (j) all  obligations  of such  Person in respect of
synthetic  leases and (k) the  undischarged  balance of any  production  payment
created by such  Person or for the  creation  of which such  Person  directly or
indirectly  received  payment.  The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the
Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person
is a general  partner) to the extent such Person is liable  therefor as a result
of such Person's  ownership  interest in or other relationship with such entity,
except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness  provide that such Person is
not liable therefor.

     "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.

     "Index Debt" means senior,  unsecured,  long-term indebtedness for borrowed
money of the Borrower  that is not  guaranteed  by any other Person except for a
Subsidiary Guarantor or subject to any other credit enhancement;  provided, that
if the  Borrower  does not have any such  indebtedness,  Index Debt shall be the
indebtedness under this Agreement.

     "Interest  Election  Request" means a request by the Borrower to convert or
continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.

     "Interest  Payment  Date" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan,  the last
day of each  March,  June,  September  and  December,  (b) with  respect  to any
Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing
of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar  Borrowing with an
Interest Period of more than three months' duration,  each day prior to the last
day of such Interest  Period that occurs at intervals of three months'  duration
after  the  first  day of such  Interest  Period  and (c)  with  respect  to any
Swingline Loan, the first day of each calendar month,  unless such day shall not
be a Business Day, in which case the next succeeding Business Day.

     "Interest  Period"  means  (a) with  respect  to any  Eurodollar  Revolving
Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the
numerically  corresponding  day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or
six months or,  with the  consent of the  Administrative  Agent,  nine or twelve
months  thereafter,  as the  Borrower  may  elect,  and (b) with  respect to any

                                       9

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Swingline  Loan, the period  commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending
on the date  specified in Section  2.10(a);  provided,  that (i) if any Interest
Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest  Period shall
be  extended  to the  next  succeeding  Business  Day  unless,  in the case of a
Eurodollar  Revolving  Borrowing only,  such next succeeding  Business Day would
fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on
the next  preceding  Business Day and (ii) any Interest  Period  pertaining to a
Eurodollar  Revolving  Borrowing  that  commences on the last  Business Day of a
calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically  corresponding day
in the  last  calendar  month of such  Interest  Period)  shall  end on the last
Business Day of the last calendar  month of such Interest  Period.  For purposes
hereof,  the date of a  Borrowing  initially  shall  be the  date on which  such
Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be
the  effective  date of the  most  recent  conversion  or  continuation  of such
Borrowing.

     "Investment  Grade Date" means the first date on which the Borrower's Index
Debt rating is BBB- or better by S&P's or Baa3 or better by Moody's,  unless one
of the two  ratings  is two or more  categories  lower  than the  other  and the
category that is one above the lower rating is not BBB- or Baa3 or better.

     "Issuing  Bank" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as the issuer of
Letters of Credit hereunder,  and its successors in such capacity as provided in
Section  2.06(i).  The Issuing Bank may, in its  discretion,  arrange for one or
more Letters of Credit to be issued by  Affiliates of the Issuing Bank, in which
case the term  "Issuing  Bank" shall  include  such  Affiliate  with  respect to
Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.  Bank of America, N.A. shall also be
an Issuing Bank as to Existing Letters of Credit.

     "LC  Disbursement"  means a payment made by an Issuing  Bank  pursuant to a
Letter of Credit.

     "LC Exposure"  means,  at any time,  the sum of (a) the  aggregate  undrawn
amount of all outstanding  Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate
amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf
of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be
its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.

     "Lenders"  means the Persons  listed on Schedule  2.01 and any other Person
that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.02 or pursuant to an
Assignment and Assumption,  other than any such Person that ceases to be a party
hereto  pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.  Unless the context  otherwise
requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lenders.

     "Letter  of  Credit"  means any letter of credit  issued  pursuant  to this
Agreement.

     "LIBO Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar  Revolving  Borrowing for
any  Interest  Period,  the rate  appearing on Page 3750 of the Dow Jones Market
Service  (or on any  successor  or  substitute  page  of  such  Service,  or any
successor  to  or  substitute  for  such  Service,   providing  rate  quotations
comparable  to  those  currently  provided  on such  page of  such  Service,  as
determined  by the  Administrative  Agent  from  time to time  for  purposes  of
providing  quotations of interest  rates  applicable  to dollar  deposits in the
London interbank market) at approximately  11:00 a.m., London time, two Business
Days prior to the commencement of such Interest  Period,  as the rate for dollar

                                       10


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



deposits with a maturity  comparable to such Interest Period.  In the event that
such rate is not  available  at such time for any  reason,  then the "LIBO Rate"
with respect to such Eurodollar  Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the
rate at which dollar  deposits of  $5,000,000  and for a maturity  comparable to
such  Interest  Period  are  offered  by  the  principal  London  office  of the
Administrative  Agent in  immediately  available  funds in the London  interbank
market at approximately  11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.

     "Lien" means,  with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage,  deed of trust,
lien,  pledge,  hypothecation,  or security interest in, on or of such asset, or
any other  charge or  encumbrance  on any such asset to secure  Indebtedness  or
liabilities,  but excluding any right to netting or setoff (b) the interest of a
vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement,  capital lease or title
retention  agreement  (or any  financing  lease  having  substantially  the same
economic  effect as any of the foregoing)  relating to such asset and (c) in the
case of securities,  any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party
with respect to such securities.

     "Loan Documents" means this Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranties.

     "Loans"  means the loans made by the  Lenders to the  Borrower  pursuant to
this Agreement.

     "Material  Adverse  Effect"  means a  material  adverse  effect  on (a) the
business,  assets,  operations,  or financial  condition of the Borrower and the
Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower or any
Subsidiary  Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement and
any other  Loan  Document  or (c) the  rights of or  benefits  available  to the
Lenders under this Agreement and any other Loan Document.

     "Material  Indebtedness"  means  Indebtedness  (other  than the  Loans  and
Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of
any one or more of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries in an aggregate  principal
amount exceeding $75,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness,
the "principal  amount" of the  obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in
respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum  aggregate amount
(giving effect to any netting  agreements)  that the Borrower or such Subsidiary
would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.

     "Maturity Date" means December 16, 2008.

     "Mid-Investment  Grade Date"  means the first date on which the  Borrower's
Index Debt rating is BBB or better by S&P's or Baa2 or better by Moody's, unless
one of the two  ratings is two or more  categories  lower than the other and the
category that is one above the lower rating is not BBB or Baa2 or better.

     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.

     "Multiemployer  Plan"  means a  multiemployer  plan as  defined  in Section
4001(a)(3) of ERISA.

                                       11


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "New Funds Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(d).

     "Notice  of  Commitment  Increase"  has the  meaning  set forth in  Section
2.02(b).

     "Obligors"  means  the  Borrower  and the  Subsidiary  Guarantors,  each an
"Obligor".

     "Oil and Gas Properties" means Hydrocarbon Interests; the properties now or
hereafter pooled or unitized with Hydrocarbon Interests;  all presently existing
or future  unitization,  pooling agreements and declarations of pooled units and
the units created thereby  (including without limitation all units created under
orders, regulations and rules of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction)
which may affect all or any portion of the Hydrocarbon Interests; all pipelines,
gathering  lines,  compression  facilities,  tanks and  processing  plants;  all
interests  held in  royalty  trusts  whether  presently  existing  or  hereafter
created;  all  Hydrocarbons  in and  under and  which  may be  produced,  saved,
processed  or  attributable  to the  Hydrocarbon  Interests,  the lands  covered
thereby and all Hydrocarbons in pipelines, gathering lines, tanks and processing
plants and all rents, issues, profits,  proceeds,  products,  revenues and other
incomes  from or  attributable  to the  Hydrocarbon  Interests;  all  tenements,
hereditaments,  appurtenances and properties in any way appertaining, belonging,
affixed or  incidental to the  Hydrocarbon  Interests,  and all rights,  titles,
interests and estates described or referred to above, including any and all real
property,  now owned or hereafter  acquired,  used or held for use in connection
with the operating,  working or development of any of such Hydrocarbon Interests
or property and including any and all surface leases,  rights-of-way,  easements
and  servitudes  together  with  all  additions,  substitutions,   replacements,
accessions and  attachments  to any and all of the  foregoing;  all oil, gas and
mineral leasehold and fee interests,  all overriding royalty interests,  mineral
interests,  royalty interests, net profits interests, net revenue interests, oil
payments, production payments, carried interests and any and all other interests
in Hydrocarbons;  in each case whether now owned or hereafter  acquired directly
or indirectly.

     "Other  Taxes"  means any and all  present or future  stamp or  documentary
taxes or any other excise or property  taxes,  charges or similar levies arising
from any payment made hereunder or from the  execution,  delivery or enforcement
of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.

     "Participant" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.

     "PBGC"  means the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation  referred to and
defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.

     "Permitted Encumbrances" means:

          (a) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments, or other governmental
     charges or  levies that are  not yet  delinquent or  are being contested in
     compliance with Section 5.04;

          (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's,
     landlords, vendors, workmen, operators, and other like Liens arising in the
     ordinary course of  business or incident to  the exploration,  development,
     operation,  and  maintenance of  Hydrocarbons and  related  facilities  and
     assets and securing obligations that are  not overdue by more than  30 days
     or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;

                                       12


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (c) pledges and deposits  made in the  ordinary course of  business in
     compliance with  workers' compensation,  unemployment insurance,  and other
     social security laws or regulations;

          (d) deposits  to  secure  the  performance  of  bids,  tenders,  trade
     contracts,   leases,   statutory  obligations,  surety  and  appeal  bonds,
     performance bonds,  and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in
     the ordinary course of business;

          (e) judgment liens in respect  of judgments  that do not constitute an
     Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII;

          (f) easements,   zoning   restrictions,   rights-of-way,   servitudes,
     permits, conditions, exceptions,  reservations, and similar encumbrances on
     real property imposed by law or arising  in the ordinary course of business
     that do not secure  any Indebtedness and  do not  materially interfere with
     the  ordinary  conduct  of  business  of the  Borrower  or  any  Restricted
     Subsidiary;

          (g) legal  or  equitable  encumbrances  deemed to  exist  by reason of
     negative pledges such as in Section 6.02 of this Agreement or the existence
     of any  litigation or other  legal proceeding  and any related  lis pendens
     filing  (excluding any  attachment  prior to  judgment,  judgment  lien  or
     attachment lien in aid of execution on a judgment);

          (h) rights of a  common owner  of any  interest in  property  held  by
     Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary as a common owner;

          (i) farmout,  carried working  interest, joint operating, unitization,
     royalty, overriding royalty, sales, and similar  agreements relating to the
     exploration or development of,  or production from,  oil and gas properties
     incurred in the ordinary course of business,

          (j) Liens  arising  pursuant  to  Section  9.343 of the  Texas Uniform
     Commercial Code or  other similar statutory provisions of other states with
     respect to production purchased from others;

          (k) any  defects,   irregularities,   or  deficiencies   in  title  to
     easements, rights-of-way, or other properties which do not in the aggregate
     have a Material Adverse Effect;

          (l) Liens  on  the  stock  or  other  ownership  interest of or in any
     Unrestricted Subsidiary, provided that there is no recourse to the Borrower
     or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  other than recourse to  such stock or other
     ownership interest and proceeds thereof;

                                       13


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (m) Liens  in  renewal or  extension of any of the foregoing permitted
     Liens,  so long as  limited to the  property or  assets encumbered  and the
     amounts  of  indebtedness  secured  immediately  prior to  such  renewal or
     extension is not increased; and

          (n) Liens approved in writing by or on behalf of the Required Lenders.

     "Person" means any natural person, corporation,  limited liability company,
trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership,  Governmental Authority
or other entity.

     "Plan" means any employee  pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer
Plan) subject to the  provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code
or  Section  302 of ERISA,  and in respect  of which the  Borrower  or any ERISA
Affiliate  is (or, if such plan were  terminated,  would under  Section  4069 of
ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.

     "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum  publicly  announced from
time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal
office in New York City;  each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective  from
and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.

     "Proved Reserves" means the estimated  quantities of crude oil, condensate,
natural gas and natural gas liquids that  adequate  geological  and  engineering
data  demonstrate  with  reasonable  certainty to be recoverable in future years
from proved reservoirs under existing  economic and operating  conditions (i.e.,
prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made).

     "PV" means as of any December 31, the  calculation of the net present value
of projected  future cash flows from Proved  Reserves  (using an 8.75%  discount
rate and the Administrative  Agent's customary price deck as of such date) based
upon the most recently delivered Reserve Report. For purposes of calculating the
PV, a maximum of 35% of the PV value will be included from Proved  Reserves that
are not  proved  developed  producing  reserves.  PV as of any date  other  than
December 31 shall mean the PV as of the most recent December 31.

     "Reducing Percentage Lender" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(d).

     "Reduction Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(d).

     "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.

     "Related  Parties"  means,  with  respect  to any  specified  Person,  such
Person's Affiliates and the respective directors,  officers,  employees,  agents
and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.

     "Required  Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having Credit Exposures and
unused Commitments  representing greater than 50% of the sum of the total Credit
Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.

                                       14


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Reserve  Report" means a report prepared as of December 31 of each year by
the Borrower with respect to the Oil and Gas  Properties of the Borrower and the
Restricted  Subsidiaries and audited at least as to 60% of the net present value
of all such Proved Reserves by Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Ryder Scott Company,
Netherland,  Sewell & Associates,  Inc. or another independent  engineering firm
selected by the Borrower and reasonably  acceptable to the Administrative Agent,
provided that as to such Proved Reserves included in the Hugoton,  Spraberry and
West Panhandle fields, such audit need only be provided every other year. In any
year that the  Proved  Reserves  included  in the  Hugoton,  Spraberry  and West
Panhandle fields are not audited,  the audit  commissioned by the Borrower shall
be as to 60% of the net  present  value of all Proved  Reserves  other than such
excluded fields.

     "Restricted  Subsidiaries"  means all Subsidiary  Guarantors  and,  without
duplication,  all  Subsidiaries  of  the  Borrower  that  are  not  Unrestricted
Subsidiaries.

     "Revolving Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03.

     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's.

     "Statutory  Reserve Rate" means a fraction  (expressed  as a decimal),  the
numerator of which is the number one and the  denominator of which is the number
one minus the  aggregate  of the  maximum  reserve  percentages  (including  any
marginal,  special,  emergency or supplemental  reserves) expressed as a decimal
established  by the  Board to which the  Administrative  Agent is  subject  with
respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency  funding (currently referred
to as  "Eurocurrency  Liabilities"  in Regulation D of the Board).  Such reserve
percentages   shall  include  those  imposed  pursuant  to  such  Regulation  D.
Eurodollar  Loans shall be deemed to constitute  eurocurrency  funding and to be
subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration,
exemptions  or  offsets  that may be  available  from time to time to any Lender
under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate
shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in
any reserve percentage.

     "subsidiary"  means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date,
any corporation,  limited liability company,  partnership,  association or other
entity the accounts of which would be  consolidated  with those of the parent in
the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were
prepared  in  accordance  with  GAAP as of  such  date,  as  well  as any  other
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity
of which securities or other ownership  interests  representing more than 50% of
the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the
general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held by
the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.

     "Subsidiary" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.

     "Subsidiary  Guarantor"  means Pioneer Natural  Resources USA, Inc. and any
other Subsidiary that is required to execute and deliver a Subsidiary Guaranty.

     "Subsidiary Guaranty" means a Subsidiary Guaranty substantially in the form
of Exhibit D executed by a Subsidiary.

                                       15


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     "Swap  Agreement"  means any agreement  with respect to any swap,  forward,
future or derivative  transaction or option or similar agreement  involving,  or
settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies,  commodities,  equity or
debt  instruments or securities,  or economic,  financial or pricing  indices or
measures  of  economic,  financial  or  pricing  risk or  value  or any  similar
transaction or any combination of these  transactions;  provided that no phantom
stock or similar  plan  providing  for  payments  only on  account  of  services
provided by current or former directors,  officers,  employees or consultants of
the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.

     "Swingline  Commitment"  means, with respect to each Swingline Lender,  the
commitment of such Swingline  Lender to make Swingline Loans. The amount of each
Swingline  Commitment  for each Swingline  Lender is  $40,000,000  and the total
Swingline Commitment is $80,000,000.

     "Swingline  Exposure" means at any time, the aggregate  principal amount of
all Swingline  Loans  outstanding  at such time.  The Swingline  Exposure of any
Lender at any time shall be its  Applicable  Percentage  of the total  Swingline
Exposure at such time.

     "Swingline  Lenders" means JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia Bank,  National
Association.

     "Swingline Loan" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.

     "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties,
deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.

     "Total Cap" means, as of any date of  determination,  the sum of Total Debt
plus  Consolidated  Tangible  Net  Worth  of the  Borrower  and  the  Restricted
Subsidiaries.

     "Total  Debt"  means  as of any  date of  determination,  all  Indebtedness
(without  duplication)  of the Borrower  and the  Restricted  Subsidiaries  on a
consolidated  basis (including any Indebtedness  proposed to be incurred on such
date of determination  and excluding all Indebtedness to be paid on such date of
determination with the proceeds thereof and excluding any Indebtedness described
in clause (g) of the definition of Indebtedness herein).

     "Transactions"  means  the  execution,  delivery  and  performance  by  the
Borrower of this  Agreement,  the  borrowing  of Loans,  the use of the proceeds
thereof,  and the issuance of Letters of Credit  hereunder  and the guarantee by
the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  of the  obligations  of  the  Borrower  under  this
Agreement.

     "Type", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing,  refers to whether
the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is
determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.

     "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means:

                                       16


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (1) any Subsidiary of the  Borrower that at the time of  determination
shall be designated  an  Unrestricted  Subsidiary by a Financial  Officer of the
Borrower in the manner provided below; and

          (2) any Subsidiary of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.  A Financial Officer
may designate any  Subsidiary of the Borrower  (including  any newly acquired or
newly  formed  Subsidiary  of  the  Borrower  and a  Restricted  Subsidiary  but
excluding any Subsidiary Guarantor) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary unless such
Subsidiary or any of its Subsidiaries  owns any Equity Interests or Indebtedness
of, or owns or holds any Lien on any  property  of,  the  Borrower  or any other
Subsidiary of the Borrower  that is not a Subsidiary of the  Subsidiary to be so
designated.  A Financial Officer may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be
a  Restricted  Subsidiary;  provided,  however,  that (i) giving  effect to such
designation  shall not result in the occurrence and continuance of a Default and
(ii) any  Indebtedness of such  Subsidiary  shall not be secured by Liens at the
time of such  designation  except for Liens  permitted by Section 6.02. Any such
designation  by a Financial  Officer  shall be evidenced  to the  Administrative
Agent by promptly filing with the Administrative  Agent a copy of the resolution
of a  Financial  Officer  giving  effect to such  designation  and an  Officers'
Certificate  certifying  that  such  designation  complied  with  the  foregoing
provisions.

     "Withdrawal  Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result
of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer  Plan, as such terms
are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.

     Section 1.02  Classification of Loans and Borrowings.  For purposes of this
Agreement,  Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving
Loan") or by Type (e.g.,  a  "Eurodollar  Loan") or by Class and Type  (e.g.,  a
"Eurodollar Revolving Loan").  Borrowings also may be classified and referred to
by Class  (e.g.,  a  "Revolving  Borrowing")  or by Type  (e.g.,  a  "Eurodollar
Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").

     Section 1.03 Terms  Generally.  The definitions of terms herein shall apply
equally to the  singular  and plural  forms of the terms  defined.  Whenever the
context may require,  any pronoun  shall  include the  corresponding  masculine,
feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall
be deemed to be followed  by the phrase  "without  limitation".  The word "will"
shall be  construed  to have the same  meaning  and effect as the word  "shall".
Unless the context requires  otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any
agreement,  instrument or other document  herein shall be construed as referring
to such  agreement,  instrument or other  document as from time to time amended,
supplemented  or  otherwise  modified  (subject  to  any  restrictions  on  such
amendments,  supplements or modifications  set forth herein),  (b) any reference
herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's  successors and
assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder",  and words of similar
import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to
any  particular  provision  hereof,  (d)  all  references  herein  to  Articles,
Sections,  Exhibits  and  Schedules  shall be construed to refer to Articles and
Sections of, and Exhibits and  Schedules  to, this  Agreement  and (e) the words
"asset" and  "property"  shall be  construed to have the same meaning and effect
and to refer to any and all  tangible  and  intangible  assets  and  properties,
including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.

                                       17

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 1.04 Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein,  all terms of an  accounting  or financial  nature shall be construed in
accordance  with GAAP,  as in effect from time to time;  provided  that,  if the
Borrower  notifies  the  Administrative  Agent  that the  Borrower  requests  an
amendment  to any  provision  hereof  to  eliminate  the  effect  of any  change
occurring  after  the date  hereof in GAAP  (including  but not  limited  to any
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards) or in the application  thereof on
the operation of such  provision (or if the  Administrative  Agent  notifies the
Borrower that the Required  Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof
for such  purpose),  regardless  of whether any such  notice is given  before or
after such change in GAAP or in the  application  thereof,  then such  provision
shall be interpreted  on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied  immediately
before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been
withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.

                                   ARTICLE II
                                   THE CREDITS

     Section 2.01  Commitments.  Subject to the terms and  conditions  set forth
herein,  each Lender agrees to make  Revolving  Loans in dollars to the Borrower
from time to time  during  the  Availability  Period in an  aggregate  principal
amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Credit Exposure  exceeding such
Lender's  Commitment or (ii) the sum of the total Credit Exposures exceeding the
total  Commitments.  Within the  foregoing  limits and  subject to the terms and
conditions  set forth  herein,  the  Borrower  may borrow,  prepay and  reborrow
Revolving Loans.

     Section 2.02     Commitment Increase.

          (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower
shall have the right,  without  the  consent of the  Lenders  but with the prior
approval of the Administrative  Agent, to cause from time to time an increase in
the  Commitments  of the  Lenders (a  "Commitment  Increase")  by adding to this
Agreement one or more additional  financial  institutions  that is not already a
Lender hereunder and that is reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent
(each a "CI  Lender") or by allowing  one or more  existing  Lenders to increase
their  respective  Commitments;  provided,  however that (i) no Event of Default
shall have occurred which is continuing, no such Commitment Increase shall cause
the Commitments under this Agreement to exceed $1,000,000,000, (iii) no Lender's
Commitment  shall be increased  without such Lender's prior written  consent and
(iv) if, on the  effective  date of such  increase,  any Loans have been funded,
then  the  Borrower  shall be  obligated  to pay any  breakage  fees or costs in
connection with the reallocation of such outstanding Loans.

          (b) Any Commitment Increase shall be requested by  written notice from
the Borrower to the Administrative Agent (a "Notice of Commitment  Increase") in
the  form  of  Exhibit  B  attached   hereto  and  shall  be   approved  by  the
Administrative  Agent, such consent to not be unreasonably  withheld.  Each such
Notice of Commitment  Increase shall specify (i) the proposed  effective date of
such Commitment Increase,  which date shall be no earlier than five (5) Business

                                       18

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Days after  receipt by the  Administrative  Agent of such  Notice of  Commitment
Increase,  (ii) the amount of the requested  Commitment  Increase (provided that
after giving effect to such requested Commitment Increase,  the aggregate amount
of the  Commitments  does not exceed the amount set forth in subsection  (a)(ii)
above),  (iii) the  identity  of each CI Lender  or  Lender  that has  agreed in
writing  to  increase  its  Commitment  hereunder,  and (iv) the  amount  of the
respective  Commitments of the then existing Lenders and the CI Lenders from and
after  the  Commitment   Increase   Effective  Date  (as  defined  below).   The
Administrative  Agent shall review each Notice of Commitment  Increase and shall
notify the  Borrower  whether or not the  Administrative  Agent  consents to the
proposed  Commitment  Increase.  If the  Administrative  Agent  consents to such
Commitment  Increase  (such  consent  not  to  be  unreasonably  withheld),  the
Administrative  Agent shall  execute a  counterpart  of the Notice of Commitment
Increase  and such  Commitment  Increase  shall  be  effective  on the  proposed
effective  date  set  forth  in  the  Notice  of  Commitment  Increase  (if  the
Administrative  Agent  consented  to  such  Commitment  Increase  prior  to such
proposed date) or on another date agreed to by the Administrative  Agent and the
Borrower (such date referred to as the "Commitment Increase Effective Date").

          (c) On each  Commitment  Increase  Effective Date,  to the extent that
there are Loans  outstanding as of such date, (i) each CI Lender shall,  by wire
transfer of immediately  available funds,  deliver to the  Administrative  Agent
such CI Lender's New Funds Amount,  which amount, for each such CI Lender, shall
constitute  Loans  made by such  CI  Lender  to the  Borrower  pursuant  to this
Agreement on such Commitment  Increase  Effective Date, (ii) the  Administrative
Agent shall, by wire transfer of immediately  available  funds, pay to each then
Reducing  Percentage  Lender its Reduction Amount,  which amount,  for each such
Reducing  Percentage  Lender,  shall  constitute  a  prepayment  by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.11,  ratably in accordance  with the respective  principal
amounts thereof,  of the principal amounts of all then outstanding Loans of such
Reducing  Percentage  Lender, and (iii) the Borrower shall be responsible to pay
to each Lender any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of
any outstanding Loans.

          (d) For  purposes of this  Section 2.02 and  Exhibit B,  the following
defined  terms shall have the following  meanings:  (i) "New Funds Amount" means
the  amount  equal to the  product of a Lender's  increased  Commitment  or a CI
Lender's Commitment (as applicable) represented as a percentage of the aggregate
Commitments after giving effect to the Commitment Increase,  times the aggregate
principal amount of the outstanding  Loans immediately prior to giving effect to
the  Commitment  Increase,  if any, as of a Commitment  Increase  Effective Date
(without regard to any increase in the aggregate  principal amount of Loans as a
result of borrowings made after giving effect to the Commitment Increase on such
Commitment  Increase  Effective Date); (ii) "Reducing  Percentage  Lender" means
each then existing Lender  immediately  prior to giving effect to the Commitment
Increase  that does not increase its  respective  Commitment  as a result of the
Commitment  Increase and whose relative  percentage of the Commitments  shall be
reduced after giving effect to such Commitment  Increase;  and (iii)  "Reduction
Amount"  means the amount by which a Reducing  Percentage  Lender's  outstanding
Loans decrease as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to the
effect of any borrowings made on such Commitment  Increase  Effective Date after
giving effect to the Commitment Increase).

                                       19


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (e) Each Commitment Increase  shall become effective on its Commitment
Increase Effective Date and upon such effectiveness (i) the Administrative Agent
shall record in the register  each then CI Lender's  information  as provided in
the  Notice  of   Commitment   Increase  and   pursuant  to  an   Administrative
Questionnaire  satisfactory to the  Administrative  Agent that shall be executed
and  delivered  by each CI Lender to the  Administrative  Agent on or before the
Commitment  Increase  Effective Date, (ii) Schedule 2.01 hereof shall be amended
and restated to set forth all Lenders  (including  any CI Lenders)  that will be
Lenders  hereunder after giving effect to such Commitment  Increase (which shall
be set forth in Annex I to the applicable Notice of Commitment Increase) and the
Administrative  Agent shall distribute to each Lender (including each CI Lender)
a copy of such  amended and  restated  Schedule  2.01,  and (iii) each CI Lender
identified on the Notice of  Commitment  Increase for such  Commitment  Increase
shall be a "Lender" for all purposes under this Agreement.

     Section 2.03     Revolving Loans and Borrowings.

     (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing  consisting of
Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their  respective
Commitments.  The failure of any Lender to make any Loan  required to be made by
it shall not relieve any other  Lender of its  obligations  hereunder;  provided
that  the  Commitments  of the  Lenders  are  several  and no  Lender  shall  be
responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.

     (b) Subject to Section 2.14,  each Revolving  Borrowing  shall be comprised
entirely  of ABR  Loans or  Eurodollar  Loans as the  Borrower  may  request  in
accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option (but subject to Section 2.19) may
make any Eurodollar  Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate
of such  Lender to make such Loan;  provided  that any  exercise  of such option
shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement.

     (c)  At the  commencement  of  each  Interest  Period  for  any  Eurodollar
Revolving  Borrowing,  such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an
integral  multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000.  At the time that
each ABR Revolving  Borrowing is made,  such Borrowing  shall be in an aggregate
amount that is an integral  multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000;
provided that an ABR Revolving  Borrowing may be in an aggregate  amount that is
equal to the entire unused balance of the total  Commitments or that is required
to finance the  reimbursement  of an LC  Disbursement as contemplated by Section
2.06(e).  Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be  outstanding  at the
same time;  provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 10
Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.

     (d)  Notwithstanding  any other provision of this  Agreement,  the Borrower
shall not be  entitled  to  request,  or to elect to  convert or  continue,  any
Revolving  Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would
end after the Maturity Date.

     Section 2.04  Requests  for  Revolving  Borrowings.  To request a Revolving
Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by
telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing,  not later than 12:00 noon,
New York  City  time,  three  Business  Days  before  the  date of the  proposed
Borrowing  and (b) in the case of an ABR  Borrowing,  not later than 12:00 noon,
New York City time, on the same Business Day of the proposed Borrowing; provided
that any such notice of an ABR Borrowing to finance the  reimbursement  of an LC
Disbursement  as  contemplated  by Section  2.06(e)  may be given not later than
12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such
telephonic  Borrowing  Request  shall be  irrevocable  and  shall  be  confirmed
promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the  Administrative  Agent of a written
Borrowing Request in a form approved by the  Administrative  Agent and signed by
the Borrower.  Each such telephonic and written  Borrowing Request shall specify
the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:

                                       20

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;

          (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;

          (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar
Borrowing;

          (iv) in the  case of a  Eurodollar  Borrowing,  the  initial  Interest
Period to be applicable  thereto,  which shall be a period  contemplated  by the
definition of the term "Interest Period"; and

          (v) the  location and number  of the Borrower's account to which funds
are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.

If no election as to the Type of  Revolving  Borrowing  is  specified,  then the
requested  Borrowing  shall  be an  ABR  Borrowing.  If no  Interest  Period  is
specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the
Borrower  shall be deemed to have  selected  an  Interest  Period of one month's
duration.  Promptly  following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with
this Section,  the Administrative  Agent shall advise each Lender of the details
thereof  and of the  amount  of  such  Lender's  Loan  to be made as part of the
requested Borrowing.

     Section 2.05     Swingline Loans.

     (a) Subject to the terms and  conditions  set forth  herein,  the Swingline
Lenders  agree to make  Swingline  Loans in dollars to the Borrower from time to
time during the  Availability  Period ratably in accordance  with its respective
Swingline  Commitment,  in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding
that  will not  result in (i) the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  outstanding
Swingline  Loans  exceeding for the  Swingline  Lender  $40,000,000  or for both
Swingline Lenders  $80,000,000 or (ii) the total Credit Exposures  exceeding the
total Commitments;  provided that the Swingline Lenders shall not be required to
make a Swingline Loan to refinance an  outstanding  Swingline  Loan.  Within the
foregoing  limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein,  the
Borrower may borrow,  prepay and reborrow  Swingline  Loans.  The failure of any
Swingline  Lender to make any Swingline Loan required to be made by it shall not
relieve any other Swingline Lender of its obligations  hereunder;  provided that
the Swingline  Commitments of the Swingline Lenders are several and no Swingline
Lender shall be responsible  for any other  Swingline  Lender's  failure to make
Loans as required. Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral
multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000;  provided, that a Swingline
Loan may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire available balance
of  the  total  Swingline  Commitments  or  that  is  required  to  finance  the
reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(c).

                                       21

<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (b)  To  request  a  Swingline   Loan,   the  Borrower   shall  notify  the
Administrative Agent of such request by telephone  (confirmed by telecopy),  not
later than 1:00 p.m.,  New York City  time,  on the day of a proposed  Swingline
Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date
(which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested  Swingline Loan. The
Administrative  Agent will  promptly  advise each  Swingline  Lender of any such
notice received from the Borrower. Each Swingline Lender shall make its pro rata
share of each Swingline Loan available to the  Administrative  Agent who will in
turn make such amount received available to the Borrower by means of a credit to
the general deposit account of the Borrower with the  Administrative  Agent (or,
in the case of a  Swingline  Loan made to  finance  the  reimbursement  of an LC
Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e),  by remittance to the Issuing Bank)
by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.

     (c) The Swingline Lenders may by written notice given to the Administrative
Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require
the Lenders to acquire  participations  on such Business Day in all or a portion
of the  Swingline  Loans  outstanding.  Such notice shall  specify the aggregate
amount of Swingline  Loans in which  Lenders  will  participate.  Promptly  upon
receipt of such notice,  the  Administrative  Agent will give notice  thereof to
each Lender,  specifying in such notice such Lender's  Applicable  Percentage of
such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and  unconditionally
agrees,  upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the  Administrative
Agent,  for the  account of each  Swingline  Lender,  such  Lender's  Applicable
Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender  acknowledges and agrees
that its  obligation to acquire  participations  in Swingline  Loans pursuant to
this Section 2.05(c) is absolute and  unconditional and shall not be affected by
any  circumstance  whatsoever,  including the  occurrence  and  continuance of a
Default or  reduction  or  termination  of the  Commitments,  and that each such
payment shall be made without any offset,  abatement,  withholding  or reduction
whatsoever.  Each Lender  shall  comply with its  obligation  under this Section
2.05(c) by wire transfer of immediately  available  funds, in the same manner as
provided in Section  2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section
2.07 shall apply, mutatis mutandis,  to the payment obligations of the Lenders),
and the  Administrative  Agent shall  promptly pay to the Swingline  Lenders the
amounts so  received  by it from the  Lenders.  The  Administrative  Agent shall
notify  the  Borrower  of any  participations  in any  Swingline  Loan  acquired
pursuant to this Section  2.05(c),  and  thereafter  payments in respect of such
Swingline  Loan  shall  be  made  to the  Administrative  Agent  and  not to the
Swingline Lenders.  Any amounts received by a Swingline Lender from the Borrower
(or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline  Loan after
receipt by such  Swingline  Lender of the  proceeds of a sale of  participations
therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts
received  by  the  Administrative  Agent  shall  be  promptly  remitted  by  the
Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant
to this Section  2.05(c) and to such Swingline  Lender,  as their  interests may
appear;  provided  that any such  payment  so  remitted  shall be repaid to such
Swingline Lender or to the  Administrative  Agent, as applicable,  if and to the
extent such  payment is required to be refunded to the  Borrower for any reason.
The  purchase of  participations  in a Swingline  Loan  pursuant to this Section
2.05(c) shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.

                                       22


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 2.06     Letters of Credit.

     (a) General. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A.,
as the Issuing  Bank,  and Lenders  hereby  agree that all  Existing  Letters of
Credit  shall be deemed to be issued under this  Agreement  as of the  Effective
Date and shall  constitute  Letters of Credit hereunder for all purposes (except
that the  Issuing  Bank's  standard  issuance  fee shall not be  payable on such
deemed issuance).  Except as provided in Section 2.06(i),  Bank of America, N.A.
shall only  serve as  Issuing  Bank for the  Existing  Letters  of  Credit,  and
JPMorgan  Chase  shall  serve as Issuing  Bank for all other  Letters of Credit.
Subject to the terms and conditions  set forth herein,  the Borrower may request
the issuance of standby  Letters of Credit,  in dollars and in a form reasonably
acceptable to the  Administrative  Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any
time and from time to time during the Availability  Period.  In the event of any
inconsistency  between the terms and  conditions of this Agreement and the terms
and conditions of any form of letter of credit  application  or other  agreement
submitted  by the  Borrower  to,  or  entered  into by the  Borrower  with,  the
applicable  Issuing  Bank  relating  to any  Letter  of  Credit,  the  terms and
conditions of this Agreement shall control.

     (b) Notice of Issuance,  Amendment,  Renewal, Extension; Certain Condition.
To request  the  issuance  of a Letter of Credit (or the  amendment,  renewal or
extension of an outstanding  Letter of Credit),  the Borrower shall hand deliver
or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication,  if arrangements for doing
so have been approved by the applicable  Issuing Bank) to the applicable Issuing
Bank and the  Administrative  Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date
of issuance,  amendment,  renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance
of a Letter of  Credit,  or  identifying  the  Letter  of Credit to be  amended,
renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance,  amendment, renewal or
extension  (which  shall be a Business  Day),  the date on which such  Letter of
Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) below), the amount of
such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary  thereof and such
other information as shall be necessary to prepare,  amend, renew or extend such
Letter of Credit.  If requested  by an Issuing  Bank,  the  Borrower  also shall
submit a letter of credit  application on such Issuing  Bank's  standard form in
connection  with any request for a Letter of Credit;  provided that no provision
in such  application  shall be deemed  effective  to the extent  such  provision
contains,  provides for, or requires,  representations,  warranties,  covenants,
security  interests,  Liens,  indemnities,  reimbursements of costs or expenses,
events  of  defaults,  remedies,  or  standards  of care or to the  extent  such
provision  conflicts or is inconsistent with this Agreement.  A Letter of Credit
shall be  issued,  amended,  renewed  or  extended  only if (and upon  issuance,
amendment,  renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower  shall be
deemed to represent and warrant  that),  after giving  effect to such  issuance,
amendment,   renewal  or  extension  (i)  the  LC  Exposure   shall  not  exceed
$100,000,000  and (ii) the total  Credit  Exposures  shall not  exceed the total
Commitments.

     (c) Expiration  Date. Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the
close of  business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the
issuance of such  Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or  extension
thereof,  one year after such  renewal or  extension)  and (ii) the date that is
five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date.

                                       23


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (d)  Participation.  By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment
to a Letter of Credit  increasing  the amount  thereof)  and without any further
action on the part of the Issuing Banks or the Lenders, the Issuing Banks hereby
grant to each Lender,  and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Banks, a
participation  in such  Letter  of  Credit  equal  to such  Lender's  Applicable
Percentage  of the aggregate  amount  available to be drawn under such Letter of
Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby
absolutely and  unconditionally  agrees to pay to the Administrative  Agent, for
the account of the Issuing Banks, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC
Disbursement made by the Issuing Banks and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the
date due as provided  in  paragraph  (e) below  below,  or of any  reimbursement
payment  required  to be refunded to the  Borrower  for any reason.  Each Lender
acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire  participations  pursuant
to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and  unconditional
and  shall  not  be  affected  by any  circumstance  whatsoever,  including  any
amendment,  renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the  occurrence  and
continuance  of a Default or reduction or termination  of the  Commitments,  and
that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement,  withholding
or reduction whatsoever.

     (e)  Reimbursement.  If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC  Disbursement  in
respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement
by paying to the  Administrative  Agent an amount equal to such LC  Disbursement
not  later  than  1:00  p.m.,  New York  City  time,  on the date  that  such LC
Disbursement  is made,  if the Borrower  shall have  received  notice of such LC
Disbursement  prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such
notice has not been  received by the  Borrower  prior to such time on such date,
then not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that
the Borrower  receives  such notice,  if such notice is received  prior to 10:00
a.m.,  New York City  time,  on the day of  receipt,  or (ii) the  Business  Day
immediately  following the day that the Borrower  receives such notice,  if such
notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt;  provided that,
if such LC Disbursement is not less than  $5,000,000,  the Borrower may, subject
to the  conditions  to borrowing set forth  herein,  request in accordance  with
Section 2.04 that such payment be financed  with an ABR  Revolving  Borrowing or
Swingline  Loan in an  equivalent  amount  and, to the extent so  financed,  the
Borrower's  obligation to make such payment shall be discharged  and replaced by
the resulting ABR Revolving  Borrowing or Swingline  Loan. If the Borrower fails
to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender
of the  applicable  LC  Disbursement,  the payment then due from the Borrower in
respect  thereof  and such  Lender's  Applicable  Percentage  thereof.  Promptly
following  receipt of such notice,  each Lender shall pay to the  Administrative
Agent its  Applicable  Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower,  in
the same manner as provided in Section  2.07 with  respect to Loans made by such
Lender  (and  Section  2.07  shall  apply,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  payment
obligations of the Lenders),  and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to
the  Issuing  Bank the  amounts so  received  by it from the  Lenders.  Promptly
following receipt by the  Administrative  Agent of any payment from the Borrower
pursuant to this  paragraph,  the  Administrative  Agent shall  distribute  such
payment to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that  Lenders  have made  payments
pursuant to this  paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank,  then to such Lenders
and the Issuing Bank as its interests  may appear.  Any payment made by a Lender
pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement
(other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or Swingline Loan as contemplated
above)  shall not  constitute  a Loan and shall not relieve the  Borrower of its
obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.

                                       24


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (f)  Obligations  Absolute.  The  Borrower's  obligation  to  reimburse  LC
Disbursements   as  provided  in   paragraph   (e)  above  shall  be   absolute,
unconditional  and  irrevocable,  and shall be performed  strictly in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances  whatsoever and
irrespective  of (i) any lack of  validity  or  enforceability  of any Letter of
Credit or this Agreement,  or any term or provision  therein,  (ii) any draft or
other  document  presented  under a  Letter  of  Credit  proving  to be  forged,
fraudulent  or invalid in any respect or any  statement  therein being untrue or
inaccurate in any respect,  or (iii) any other event or circumstance  whatsoever
(other than failure to comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit),  whether
or not similar to any of the  foregoing,  that might,  but for the provisions of
this Section,  constitute a legal or equitable  discharge of, or provide a right
of  setoff  against,   the  Borrower's   obligations   hereunder.   Neither  the
Administrative  Agent,  the  Lenders  nor the  Issuing  Banks,  nor any of their
Related Parties,  shall have any liability or  responsibility by reason of or in
connection  with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment
or  failure  to  make  any  payment  thereunder  (irrespective  of  any  of  the
circumstances  referred to in the preceding sentence),  or any error,  omission,
interruption,  loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or
other  communication  under or relating to any Letter of Credit  (including  any
document required to make a drawing thereunder),  any error in interpretation of
technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the
Issuing Banks;  provided that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the
Issuing Banks from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages
(as  opposed  to  consequential  damages,  claims in respect of which are hereby
waived by the Borrower to the extent  permitted by  applicable  law) suffered by
the Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Banks' failure to exercise care when
determining  whether  drafts  and other  documents  presented  under a Letter of
Credit comply with the terms thereof.  The parties hereto  expressly agree that,
in the  absence of gross  negligence  or willful  misconduct  on the part of the
Issuing Banks (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction),  the
Issuing Banks shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination.
In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the
parties agree that,  with respect to documents  presented  which appear on their
face to be in substantial  compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit,  the
Issuing Banks may, in their sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon
such documents without responsibility for further  investigation,  regardless of
any notice or information to the contrary,  or refuse to accept and make payment
upon such  documents if such  documents  are not in strict  compliance  with the
terms of such Letter of Credit.

     (g) Disbursement  Procedures.  The Issuing Banks shall,  promptly following
receipt  thereof,  examine all  documents  purporting  to represent a demand for
payment under a Letter of Credit.  The Issuing Banks shall  promptly  notify the
Administrative  Agent and the Borrower by telephone  (confirmed  by telecopy) of
such demand for payment and whether the Issuing  Banks have made or will make an
LC Disbursement thereunder; provided that any failure to give or delay in giving
such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its  obligation  to reimburse  the
Issuing Banks and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.

     (h) Interim  Interest.  If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC  Disbursement,
then,  unless the Borrower shall  reimburse such LC  Disbursement in full on the
date  such LC  Disbursement  is made,  the  unpaid  amount  thereof  shall  bear
interest,  for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made
to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement,  at
the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; provided that, if the

                                       25


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement  when due pursuant to paragraph
(e) above,  then Section 2.13(d) shall apply.  Interest accrued pursuant to this
paragraph  shall be for the account of the Issuing  Bank,  except that  interest
accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e)
of this Section to  reimburse  the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such
Lender to the extent of such payment.

     (i)  Replacement of the Issuing  Banks.  An Issuing Bank may be replaced at
any time by written agreement among the Borrower,  the Administrative Agent, the
replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The  Administrative  Agent
shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time
any such replacement shall become  effective,  the Borrower shall pay all unpaid
fees  accrued for the account of the replaced  Issuing Bank  pursuant to Section
2.12(b).  From and after the  effective  date of any such  replacement,  (i) the
successor  Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the Issuing
Bank  under  this  Agreement  with  respect  to  Letters  of Credit to be issued
thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed
to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor
and all  previous  Issuing  Banks,  as the  context  shall  require.  After  the
replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain
a party hereto and shall  continue to have all the rights and  obligations of an
Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it
prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters
of Credit.

     (j) Cash  Collateralization.  If the Loans have become  immediately due and
payable  pursuant to Article VII, on the Business Day following the Business Day
that  the  Borrower  receives  notice  from  the  Administrative  Agent  (at the
direction of Required  Lenders) or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of
cash  collateral  pursuant to this  paragraph,  the Borrower shall deposit in an
account with the Administrative  Agent, in the name of the Administrative  Agent
and for the benefit of the  Lenders,  an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure
as of such  date  plus any  accrued  and  unpaid  interest  on LC  Disbursements
comprising  such LC Exposure.  Such deposit shall be held by the  Administrative
Agent as collateral for the payment and  performance  of the  obligations of the
Borrower under this  Agreement.  The  Administrative  Agent shall have exclusive
dominion and control,  including the exclusive  right of  withdrawal,  over such
account (which shall be invested in obligations of,  obligations  guaranteed by,
or  obligations  backed by the full faith and  credit  of, the United  States of
America,  certificates of deposit of  Administrative  Agent or commercial  paper
having the highest  rating from S&P or  Moody's,  in each case  maturing in less
than 180  days).  Other  than any  interest  earned  on the  investment  of such
deposits,  which  investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of
the Administrative  Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense,  such deposits
shall not bear interest.  Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall
accumulate  in such  account.  Moneys in such  account  shall be  applied by the
Administrative Agent to reimburse an Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which
it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied,  shall be held for
the  satisfaction  of the  reimbursement  obligations of the Borrower for the LC
Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but
subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50%
of the total LC  Exposure),  be  applied  to satisfy  other  obligations  of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

                                       26


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 2.07     Funding of Borrowings.

     (a) Each  Lender  shall  make each Loan to be made by it  hereunder  on the
proposed date thereof by wire transfer of  immediately  available  funds by 1:00
pm, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently
designated  by it for such  purpose  by notice  to the  Lenders;  provided  that
Swingline  Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05.  The  Administrative
Agent will make such Loans  available to the Borrower by promptly  crediting the
amounts so received,  in like funds,  to an account of the  Borrower  maintained
with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in
the  applicable  Borrowing  Request;  provided that ABR Revolving  Loans made to
finance the  reimbursement  of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e)
shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.

     (b) Unless the  Administrative  Agent  shall have  received  notice  from a
Lender prior to the  proposed  date of any  Borrowing  that such Lender will not
make  available  to  the  Administrative  Agent  such  Lender's  share  of  such
Borrowing,  the  Administrative  Agent may assume that such Lender has made such
share  available on such date in accordance  with  paragraph (a) of this Section
and may, in reliance  upon such  assumption,  make  available  to the Borrower a
corresponding  amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share
of the applicable  Borrowing  available to the  Administrative  Agent,  then the
applicable Lender and the Borrower  severally agree to pay to the Administrative
Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding  amount with interest thereon,  for
each day from and  including  the date  such  amount  is made  available  to the
Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the  Administrative  Agent,  at
(i) in the case of such Lender,  the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate
and a rate  determined by the  Administrative  Agent in accordance  with banking
industry  rules on interbank  compensation  or (ii) in the case of the Borrower,
the interest rate  applicable to the applicable  Borrowing.  If such Lender pays
such amount to the Administrative  Agent, then such amount shall constitute such
Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.

     Section 2.08     Interest Elections.

     (a) Each Revolving  Borrowing  initially  shall be of the Type specified in
the  applicable  Borrowing  Request and, in the case of a  Eurodollar  Revolving
Borrowing,  shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing
Request.  Thereafter,  the  Borrower  may elect to convert  such  Borrowing to a
different  Type or to continue such  Borrowing  and, in the case of a Eurodollar
Revolving  Borrowing,  may elect Interest Periods  therefor,  all as provided in
this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different
portions of the affected  Borrowing,  in which case each such  portion  shall be
allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing,
and the Loans  comprising  each such  portion  shall be  considered  a  separate
Borrowing.

     (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify
the  Administrative  Agent of such  election  by  telephone  by the time  that a
Borrowing  Request  would be required  under  Section 2.04 if the Borrower  were
requesting a Revolving  Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be
made on the  effective  date of such  election.  Each such  telephonic  Interest
Election  Request shall be irrevocable  and shall be confirmed  promptly by hand
delivery or telecopy to the Administrative  Agent of a written Interest Election
Request  in a form  approved  by the  Administrative  Agent  and  signed  by the
Borrower.

                                       27


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the
following information in compliance with Section 2.02:

          (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and,
if  different  options are being  elected  with  respect to  different  portions
thereof,  the portions  thereof to be allocated to each resulting  Borrowing (in
which case the  information  to be specified  pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv)
below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);

          (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest
Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;

          (iii) whether the resulting  Borrowing is to be an  ABR Borrowing or a
Eurodollar Borrowing; and

          (iv) if  the  resulting  Borrowing  is  a  Eurodollar  Borrowing,  the
Interest  Period to be applicable  thereto after giving effect to such election,
which shall be a period  contemplated  by the  definition of the term  "Interest
Period".

If any such Interest  Election Request requests a Eurodollar  Borrowing but does
not  specify  an  Interest  Period,  then the  Borrower  shall be deemed to have
selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.

     (d)  Promptly  following  receipt  of an  Interest  Election  Request,  the
Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such
Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.

     (e) If the Borrower  fails to deliver a timely  Interest  Election  Request
with respect to a Eurodollar  Borrowing  prior to the end of the Interest Period
applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at
the end of such  Interest  Period such  Borrowing  shall be  converted to an ABR
Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default
has occurred and is continuing and the  Administrative  Agent, at the request of
the Required  Lenders,  so notifies the  Borrower,  then, so long as an Event of
Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to
or continued as a Eurodollar  Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid,  each Eurodollar
Revolving  Borrowing  shall be converted  to an ABR  Borrowing at the end of the
Interest Period applicable thereto.

     Section 2.09     Termination and Reduction of Commitments.

     (a) Unless  previously  terminated,  the Commitments shall terminate on the
Maturity Date.

     (b) The Borrower may at any time  terminate,  or from time to time,  reduce
the Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in
an  amount  that  is an  integral  multiple  of  $1,000,000  and not  less  than
$5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower  shall not terminate or reduce the  Commitments
if, after giving effect to any concurrent  prepayment of the Loans in accordance
with Section 2.11, the Credit Exposure would exceed the Commitments.

                                       28


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (c) The Borrower shall notify the  Administrative  Agent of any election to
terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least
three  Business  Days  prior  to the  effective  date  of  such  termination  or
reduction,  specifying  such election and the effective  date thereof.  Promptly
following  receipt of any notice,  the  Administrative  Agent  shall  advise the
Lenders of the contents thereof.  Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant
to this Section shall be  irrevocable;  provided that a notice of termination of
the  Commitments  delivered  by the  Borrower  may  state  that  such  notice is
conditioned  upon the  effectiveness of other credit  facilities,  in which case
such  notice  may be revoked by the  Borrower  (by notice to the  Administrative
Agent on or prior to the  specified  effective  date) if such  condition  is not
satisfied.  Any termination or reduction of the Commitments  shall be permanent.
Each  reduction of the  Commitments  shall be made ratably  among the Lenders in
accordance with their respective Applicable Percentage.

Section 2.10     Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.

     (a)  The  Borrower  hereby  unconditionally  promises  to  pay,  (i) to the
Administrative  Agent for the account of each  Lender the then unpaid  principal
amount of each  Revolving  Loan on the  Maturity  Date and (ii) with  respect to
Swingline Loans made to it, to the Administrative  Agent for the account of each
Swingline  Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the
earlier of the Maturity Date and the Swingline  Due Date.  "Swingline  Due Date"
means for each Swingline Loan, the next Business Day from the date the Swingline
Loan has been  disbursed.  On each date that a Revolving  Borrowing is made, the
Borrower shall repay the amount of any outstanding  Swingline Loans that exceeds
$20,000,000.

     (b) Each Lender shall  maintain in  accordance  with its usual  practice an
account or accounts  evidencing the  indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender
resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal
and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.

     (c) The  Administrative  Agent  shall  maintain  accounts in which it shall
record (i) the amount of each Loan made  hereunder,  the Class and Type  thereof
and the Interest Period applicable thereto,  (ii) the amount of any principal or
interest  due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each
Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the  Administrative
Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.

     (d) The entries made in the accounts  maintained  pursuant to paragraph (b)
or (c) of this  Section  shall be prima  facie  evidence  of the  existence  and
amounts of the obligations  recorded  therein;  provided that the failure of any
Lender  or the  Administrative  Agent to  maintain  such  accounts  or any error
therein shall not in any manner  affect the  obligation of the Borrower to repay
the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

     (e)  Any  Lender  may  request  that  Loans  made by it be  evidenced  by a
promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare,  execute and deliver
to such  Lender a  promissory  note  payable to the order of such Lender (or, if
requested  by such  Lender,  to such  Lender  and its  registered  assigns)  and
substantially  in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E.  Thereafter,  the Loans
evidenced  by such  promissory  note and  interest  thereon  shall at all  times
(including after  assignment  pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or
more  promissory  notes in such form  payable  to the  order of the payee  named
therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its
registered assigns).

                                       29


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 2.11     Prepayment of Loans.

     (a) Subject to any breakage funding costs payable pursuant to Section 2.16,
the  Borrower  shall  have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay
any Borrowing in whole or in part without premium or penalty, provided that each
prepayment is in an amount that is an integral  multiple of  $1,000,000  and not
less than $5,000,000, or if such amount is lesser, the outstanding amount of the
Borrowing,  and made subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of
this Section.

     (b) The  Borrower  shall  notify  the  Administrative  Agent  by  telephone
(confirmed  by  telecopy)  of  any  prepayment  hereunder  (i) in  the  case  of
prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving  Borrowing,  not later than 12:00 noon, New
York City time,  three Business Days before the date of prepayment,  (ii) in the
case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New
York City time, on the date of prepayment, or (iii) in the case of prepayment of
a Swingline  Loan,  not later than 12:00 noon New York City time, on the date of
prepayment.  Each  such  notice  shall be  irrevocable  and  shall  specify  the
prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to
be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with
a conditional  notice of  termination  of the  Commitments  as  contemplated  by
Section 2.09,  then such notice of  prepayment  may be revoked if such notice of
termination  is revoked in  accordance  with Section  2.09.  Promptly  following
receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative
Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof.  Each partial prepayment
of any Revolving  Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the
case of an advance of a  Revolving  Borrowing  of the same Type as  provided  in
Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving  Borrowing shall be applied ratably
to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied
by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13.

     Section 2.12     Fees.

     (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative  Agent for the account
of each Lender a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Margin for
commitment  fees on the daily  amount of the unused  Commitment  of such  Lender
without  giving effect to such Lender's  Swingline  Exposures  during the period
from and  including  the date  hereof to but  excluding  the date on which  such
Commitment  terminates.  Accrued  Commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on
the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date
on which the Commitments  terminate,  commencing on the first such date to occur
after the date hereof.  All Commitment  fees shall be computed on the basis of a
year of 365 days (or 366  days in a leap  year)  and  shall be  payable  for the
actual  number of days elapsed  (including  the first day but excluding the last
day).

     (b) The  Borrower  agrees  to pay (i) to the  Administrative  Agent for the
account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in
Letters of Credit,  which  shall  accrue at the same  Applicable  Margin used to
determine the interest rate  applicable  to  Eurodollar  Revolving  Loans on the
average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof
attributable  to  unreimbursed  LC  Disbursements)  during the  period  from and

                                       30


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


including  the  Effective  Date to but  excluding the later of the date on which
such Lender's Commitment  terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to
have any LC Exposure, and to the Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue
at the rate of 0.125% per annum on the average  daily  amount of the LC Exposure
(excluding any portion thereof  attributable  to unreimbursed LC  Disbursements)
during the period from and  including  the  Effective  Date to but excluding the
later of the date of termination of the  Commitments and the date on which there
ceases to be any LC Exposure,  as well as the Issuing Bank's  standard fees with
respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit
or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees shall
be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June,  September and December of
each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate.  All participation
fees and fronting  fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or
366 days in a leap  year) and shall be  payable  for the  actual  number of days
elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).

     (c) The Borrower  agrees to pay to the  Administrative  Agent,  for its own
account,  fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon in
writing between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.

     (d)  All  fees  payable  hereunder  shall  be  paid on the  dates  due,  in
immediately  available  funds,  to the  Administrative  Agent (or to the Issuing
Bank,  in the  case of fees  payable  to it) for  distribution,  in the  case of
commitment fees and participation  fees, to the Lenders.  Fees paid shall not be
refundable under any circumstances.

     Section 2.13     Interest.

     (a) The Loans  comprising  each ABR  Borrowing  shall bear  interest at the
Alternate  Base Rate plus the Applicable  Margin,  but not to exceed the Highest
Lawful Rate.

     (b) The Loans  comprising  each Eurodollar  Revolving  Borrowing shall bear
interest at the Adjusted  LIBO Rate for the  Interest  Period in effect for such
Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin, but not to exceed the Highest Lawful Rate.

     (c) When the  Borrower  requests  a  Swingline  Loan,  such Loan shall bear
interest from the date it is disbursed at a rate to be  established  as provided
on Schedule 2.13.

     (d) Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if any principal of or interest on any
Loan or any fee or other amount  payable by the  Borrower  hereunder is not paid
when due,  whether at stated  maturity,  upon  acceleration  or otherwise,  such
overdue amount shall bear interest,  after as well as before judgment, at a rate
per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the
rate otherwise  applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding  paragraphs
of this  Section  or (ii) in the  case of any  other  amount,  2% plus  the rate
applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section, but not to
exceed the Highest Lawful Rate.

                                       31


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (e)  Accrued  interest  on each Loan  shall be  payable  in arrears on each
Interest  Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving  Loans,  upon
termination of the  Commitments;  provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this Section  shall be payable on demand,  (ii) in the event of
any  repayment  or  prepayment  of any Loan (other than a  prepayment  of an ABR
Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on
the  principal  amount  repaid or  prepaid  shall be payable on the date of such
repayment  or  prepayment  and  (iii)  in the  event  of any  conversion  of any
Eurodollar  Revolving  Loan  prior  to the end of the  current  Interest  Period
therefor,  accrued  interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date
of such conversion.

     (f) All interest  hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360
days,  except that interest  computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at
times when the Alternate  Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed
on the  basis of a year of 365 days  (or 366 days in a leap  year),  and in each
case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first
day but excluding the last day).  The applicable  Alternate Base Rate,  Adjusted
LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative  Agent and such
determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.

     Section 2.14 Alternate Rate of Interest.  If prior to the  commencement  of
any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing (including any Swingline Loan):

     (a) the  Administrative  Agent  determines  (which  determination  shall be
conclusive  absent  manifest  error) that adequate and  reasonable  means do not
exist for  ascertaining  the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable,
for such Interest Period; or

     (b) the Administrative  Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or in the
case of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline  Lenders) that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or
the LIBO Rate, as applicable,  for such Interest  Period will not adequately and
fairly  reflect  the cost to such  Lenders  (or  Swingline  Lender) of making or
maintaining  their Loans (or its Swingline  Loan) included in such Borrowing for
such Interest Period;

then the Administrative  Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the
Lenders by  telephone  or telecopy as promptly as  practicable  thereafter  and,
until the  Administrative  Agent  notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the
circumstances  giving  rise to such  notice no longer  exist,  (i) any  Interest
Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving  Borrowing to, or
continuation  of any  Revolving  Borrowing as, a Eurodollar  Borrowing  shall be
ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing  Request  requests a Eurodollar  Revolving
Borrowing,  such  Borrowing  shall be made as an ABR  Borrowing  and  (iii)  any
request by the Borrower for a Swingline Loan shall be ineffective; provided that
if the  circumstances  giving  rise to  such  notice  affect  only  one  Type of
Borrowing, then the other Type of Borrowing shall be permitted.

     Section 2.15     Increased Costs.

     (a) If any Change in Law shall:

          (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve,  special deposit or
similar  requirement  against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or
credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in
the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or the Issuing Banks ; or

                                       32


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


          (ii) impose on any Lender or the Issuing Banks or the London interbank
market any other condition  affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by
such Lender or any Letter of Credit or  participation  therein;  (excluding,  in
each case,  Taxes,  as to which Section 2.17 shall govern) and the result of any
of the  foregoing  shall be to  increase  the cost to such  Lender  of making or
maintaining  any Eurodollar  Loan (or of maintaining  its obligation to make any
such  Loan) or to  increase  the cost to such  Lender  or the  Issuing  Banks of
participating  in, issuing or maintaining  any Letter of Credit or to reduce the
amount of any sum  received or  receivable  by such Lender or the Issuing  Banks
hereunder (whether of principal,  interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will
pay to such  Lender or the Issuing  Banks , as the case may be, such  additional
amount or amounts as will  compensate  such Lender or the Issuing Banks , as the
case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.

     (b) If any  Lender or an  Issuing  Bank  determines  that any Change in Law
regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate
of return on such  Lender's or the Issuing  Bank's  capital or on the capital of
such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of
this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held
by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank, to a level
below that which such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing
Bank's  holding  company  could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking
into consideration such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's policies and the policies
of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's  holding  company with respect to capital
adequacy),  then from time to time the  Borrower  will pay to such Lender or the
Issuing  Bank,  as the case may be,  such  additional  amount or amounts as will
compensate  such  Lender or the  Issuing  Bank or such  Lender's  or the Issuing
Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.

     (c) A  certificate  of a  Lender  or the  Issuing  Bank  setting  forth  in
reasonable  detail the amount or amounts  necessary to compensate such Lender or
the Issuing  Bank or its holding  company,  as the case may be, as  specified in
paragraph  (a) or (b) of this Section  shall be delivered to the  Borrower.  The
Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender or
the  Issuing  Bank,  as the case  may be,  the  amount  shown as due on any such
certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.

     (d)  Failure  or delay on the part of any  Lender  or the  Issuing  Bank to
demand  compensation  pursuant to this Section shall not  constitute a waiver of
such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation;  provided
that the  Borrower  shall not be required to  compensate a Lender or the Issuing
Bank  pursuant to this Section for any increased  costs or  reductions  incurred
more than 270 days prior to the date that such  Lender or the Issuing  Bank,  as
the case may be,  notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such
increased  costs  or  reductions  and of such  Lender's  or the  Issuing  Bank's
intention to claim compensation  therefor;  provided further that, if the Change
in Law giving rise to such increased  costs or reductions is  retroactive,  then
the 270-day period  referred to above shall be extended to include the period of
retroactive effect thereof.

     Section 2.16 Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any
principal  of any  Eurodollar  Loan  other  than on the last day of an  Interest
Period applicable  thereto  (including as a result of an Event of Default),  (b)
the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest
Period  applicable  thereto,  (c) the  failure to borrow,  convert,  continue or

                                       33


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003

prepay  any  Eurodollar  Loan on the  date  specified  in any  notice  delivered
pursuant hereto  (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section
2.11(b) and is revoked in accordance  therewith),  or (d) the  assignment of any
Eurodollar  Loan other than on the last day of the  Interest  Period  applicable
thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then,
in any such event,  the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost
and expense  attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar  Loan, such
loss,  cost or  expense  to any  Lender  shall be  deemed to  include  an amount
determined  by such  Lender  to be the  excess,  if any,  of (i) the  amount  of
interest which would have accrued on the principal  amount of such Loan had such
event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to
such  Loan,  for the  period  from the date of such event to the last day of the
then current  Interest  Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow,
convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for
such  Loan),  over  (ii) the  amount  of  interest  which  would  accrue on such
principal  amount for such period at the  interest  rate which such Lender would
bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a
comparable  amount  and period  from other  banks in the  eurodollar  market.  A
certificate  of any Lender  setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender
is entitled to receive  pursuant to this Section in  reasonable  detail shall be
delivered to the Borrower.  The Borrower shall pay to the  Administrative  Agent
for the account of such Lender the amount  shown as due on any such  certificate
within 10 days after receipt thereto.

     Section 2.17     Taxes.

     (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower
hereunder  shall  be made  free  and  clear  of and  without  deduction  for any
Indemnified  Taxes  or  Other  Taxes;  provided  that if the  Borrower  shall be
required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then
(i) the sum payable  shall be  increased  as  necessary so that after making all
required deductions  (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable
under this Section) the Administrative  Agent,  Lender, or Issuing Banks (as the
case may be) receives an amount  equal to the sum it would have  received had no
such  deductions  been made,  (ii) the Borrower  shall make such  deductions and
(iii)  the  Borrower  shall  pay  the  full  amount  deducted  to  the  relevant
Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.

     (b) In  addition,  the  Borrower  shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant
Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.

     (c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender, and
the Issuing Banks within 10 days after  written  demand  therefor,  for the full
amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent,
such  Lender,  or the Issuing  Banks , as the case may be, on or with respect to
any  payment  by or on  account  of any  obligation  of the  Borrower  hereunder
(including   Indemnified  Taxes  or  Other  Taxes  imposed  or  asserted  on  or
attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties,  interest
and reasonable  expenses arising  therefrom or with respect thereto,  whether or
not such  Indemnified  Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or
asserted by the relevant Governmental  Authority. A certificate as to the amount
of such  payment or  liability  in  reasonable  detail shall be delivered to the
Borrower by a Lender or the Issuing  Banks , or by the  Administrative  Agent on
its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the Issuing Banks.

                                       34


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (d) As soon as practicable  after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other
Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to
the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by
such  Governmental  Authority  evidencing  such  payment,  a copy of the  return
reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory
to the Administrative Agent.

     (e) Any Foreign  Lender that is entitled to an exemption  from or reduction
of withholding  tax under the law of the  jurisdiction  in which the Borrower is
located,  or any treaty to which such  jurisdiction is a party,  with respect to
payments under this Agreement  shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the
Administrative  Agent),  at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such
properly  completed and executed  documentation  prescribed by applicable law or
reasonably  requested  by the  Borrower as will permit such  payments to be made
without withholding or at a reduced rate.

     (f) Upon the Borrower's written request,  the Administrative Agent and each
Lender shall use reasonable  efforts to make any filings necessary to obtain any
refund, deduction or credit of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which the Borrower
has  indemnified  it or with respect to which the  Borrower has paid  additional
amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17. If the  Administrative  Agent or a Lender
receives any material refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been
indemnified  by the  Borrower  or with  respect to which the  Borrower  has paid
additional  amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17, it shall pay over such refund
to the  Borrower  (but  only  to the  extent  of  indemnity  payments  made,  or
additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.17 with respect to
the Taxes or Other Taxes  giving  rise to such  refund),  net of all  reasonable
out-of-pocket  expenses of the  Administrative  Agent or such Lender and without
interest  (other than any interest paid by the relevant  Governmental  Authority
with respect to such refund);  provided,  that the Borrower, upon the request of
the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to
the  Borrower  (plus any  penalties,  interest or other  charges  imposed by the
relevant  Governmental  Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in
the event the  Administrative  Agent or such  Lender is  required  to repay such
refund to such  Governmental  Authority.  This Section shall not be construed to
require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns
(or any other information  relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to
the  Borrower or any other Person or to attempt to take any position to obtain a
refund,  deduction,  or credit,  which  attempt would be  inconsistent  with any
reporting position otherwise taken by the Administrative Agent or such Lender on
its applicable tax returns.

     Section 2.18     Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of
                      Set-offs.

     (a)  The  Borrower  shall  make  each  payment  required  to be  made by it
hereunder  (whether  of  principal,   interest,  fees  or  reimbursement  of  LC
Disbursements,  or of amounts  payable  under  Section  2.15,  2.16 or 2.17,  or
otherwise)  prior to 12:00  noon,  New York City time,  on the date when due, in
immediately  available  funds,  without  set-off or  counterclaim.  Any  amounts
received   after  such  time  on  any  date  may,  in  the   discretion  of  the
Administrative  Agent,  be deemed to have been  received on the next  succeeding
Business Day for purposes of  calculating  interest  thereon.  All such payments

                                       35


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New
York,  New York,  except  payments to be made  directly to the Issuing  Banks or
Swingline Lender as expressly  provided herein and except that payments pursuant
to Section  9.03 shall be made  directly to the Persons  entitled  thereto.  The
Administrative  Agent shall distribute any such payments  received by it for the
account of any other  Person to the  appropriate  recipient  promptly  following
receipt  thereof.  If any payment  hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a
Business  Day,  the date for payment  shall be  extended to the next  succeeding
Business  Day,  and,  in the case of any  payment  accruing  interest,  interest
thereon  shall  be  payable  for the  period  of such  extension.  All  payments
hereunder shall be made in dollars.

     (b) If at any time insufficient  funds are received by and available to the
Administrative  Agent to pay fully all  amounts of  principal,  unreimbursed  LC
Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied
(i) first,  towards  payment of interest  and fees then due  hereunder,  ratably
among the parties  entitled  thereto in accordance  with the amounts of interest
and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal
and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder,  ratably among the parties
entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC
Disbursements then due to such parties.

     (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim
or otherwise,  obtain  payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any
of its Revolving Loans or  participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans
resulting  in such  Lender  receiving  payment  of a greater  proportion  of the
aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and  participations  in LC Disbursements
and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by
any other  Lender,  then the Lender  receiving  such  greater  proportion  shall
purchase  (for cash at face value)  participations  in the  Revolving  Loans and
participations  in LC Disbursements  and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the
extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the
Lenders  ratably in  accordance  with the  aggregate  amount of principal of and
accrued interest on their respective  Revolving Loans and  participations  in LC
Disbursements and Swingline Loans;  provided that (i) if any such participations
are  purchased  and all or any  portion of the payment  giving  rise  thereto is
recovered,  such  participations  shall  be  rescinded  and the  purchase  price
restored  to the  extent  of such  recovery,  without  interest,  and  (ii)  the
provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made
by the Borrower  pursuant to and in  accordance  with the express  terms of this
Agreement  or  any  payment  obtained  by a  Lender  as  consideration  for  the
assignment of or sale of a participation  in any of its Loans or  participations
in LC Disbursements  to any assignee or participant,  other than to the Borrower
or any  Subsidiary  or  Affiliate  thereof (as to which the  provisions  of this
paragraph shall apply).  The Borrower  consents to the foregoing and agrees,  to
the  extent it may  effectively  do so under  applicable  law,  that any  Lender
acquiring a participation  pursuant to the foregoing  arrangements  may exercise
against the  Borrower  rights of set-off and  counterclaim  with respect to such
participation  as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower
in the amount of such participation.

     (d) Unless the  Administrative  Agent shall have  received  notice from the
Borrower  prior to the date on which any  payment  is due to the  Administrative
Agent for the  account of the Lenders or the Issuing  Banks  hereunder  that the
Borrower will not make such payment,  the  Administrative  Agent may assume that
the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance  herewith and may,
in  reliance  upon such  assumption,  distribute  to the  Lenders or the Issuing
Banks,  as the case may be, the amount due. In such event,  if the  Borrower has

                                       36


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


not in fact made such  payment,  then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks ,
as the case may be,  severally  agrees  to  repay  to the  Administrative  Agent
forthwith on demand the amount so  distributed  to such Lender or Issuing  Banks
with interest  thereon,  for each day from and including the date such amount is
distributed  to it to but  excluding  the date of payment to the  Administrative
Agent,  at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined
by the  Administrative  Agent  in  accordance  with  banking  industry  rules on
interbank compensation.

     (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment  required to be made by it
pursuant to Section 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b) or 2.18(d),  then the Administrative
Agent may, in its discretion  (notwithstanding  any contrary  provision hereof),
apply  any  amounts  thereafter  received  by the  Administrative  Agent for the
account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's  obligations under such Sections
until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.

     Section 2.19     Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders..

     (a) If any Lender  requests  compensation  under  Section  2.15,  or if the
Borrower  is  required  to  pay  any  additional  amount  to any  Lender  or any
Governmental  Authority for the account of any Lender  pursuant to Section 2.17,
then such Lender shall use reasonable  efforts to designate a different  lending
office for  funding or booking its Loans  hereunder  or to assign its rights and
obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates,  if, in
the judgment of such Lender,  such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate
or reduce amounts payable  pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be,
in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or
expense and would not otherwise be  disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower
hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in
connection with any such designation or assignment.

     (b) If any Lender  requests  compensation  under  Section  2.15,  or if the
Borrower  is  required  to  pay  any  additional  amount  to any  Lender  or any
Governmental  Authority for the account of any Lender  pursuant to Section 2.17,
or if any Lender  defaults in its obligation to fund Loans  hereunder,  then the
Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the
Administrative  Agent,  require  such  Lender to assign  and  delegate,  without
recourse  (in  accordance  with and  subject to the  restrictions  contained  in
Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to
an assignee that shall assume such  obligations  (which  assignee may be another
Lender,  if a Lender  accepts such  assignment);  provided that (i) the Borrower
shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative  Agent (and,
if a Commitment  is being  assigned,  the Issuing  Bank) which consent shall not
unreasonably  be withheld,  (ii) such Lender shall have  received  payment of an
amount equal to the outstanding  principal of its Loans and participations in LC
Disbursements and Swingline Loans,  accrued interest  thereon,  accrued fees and
all other amounts  payable to it hereunder,  from the assignee (to the extent of
such  outstanding  principal and accrued  interest and fees) or the Borrower (in
the case of all  other  amounts)  and  (iii) in the case of any such  assignment
resulting from a claim for compensation  under Section 2.15 or payments required
to be made pursuant to Section 2.17,  such assignment will result in a reduction
in such  compensation  or  payments.  A Lender shall not be required to make any
such  assignment and  delegation  if, prior thereto,  as a result of a waiver by
such Lender or otherwise,  the  circumstances  entitling the Borrower to require
such assignment and delegation cease to apply.

                                       37


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                  ARTICLE III
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:

     Section 3.01 Organization;  Powers. Each of the Borrower and its Restricted
Subsidiaries is duly organized,  validly existing and in good standing under the
laws of the  jurisdiction  of its  organization,  has all  requisite  power  and
authority  to carry on its  business  as now  conducted  and,  except  where the
failure to do so,  individually  or in the  aggregate,  could not  reasonably be
expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in,
and is in good  standing  in, every  jurisdiction  where such  qualification  is
required.

     Section 3.02  Authorization;  Enforceability.  The  Transactions are within
each Obligor's  corporate  powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate  and,  if  required,   stockholder  action.  This  Agreement  and  all
Subsidiary  Guaranties  have been duly  executed  and  delivered by the Obligor,
which is a party thereto,  and constitute a legal,  valid and binding obligation
of such  Obligor,  enforceable  in  accordance  with  their  terms,  subject  to
applicable  bankruptcy,  insolvency,  reorganization,  moratorium  or other laws
affecting  creditors'  rights  generally  and subject to general  principles  of
equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.

     Section 3.03 Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.  The Transactions (a) do
not  violate  the  charter,  by-laws or other  organizational  documents  of the
Borrower or any of its Restricted  Subsidiaries or (b) except as to matters that
could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect,  (i) do
not require any consent or approval  of,  registration  or filing  with,  or any
other action by, any Governmental  Authority,  except such as have been obtained
or made and are in full force and effect,  (ii) will not violate any  applicable
law or regulation  or any order of any  Governmental  Authority,  (iii) will not
violate  or  result  in a  default  under  any  indenture,  agreement  or  other
instrument  binding upon the Borrower or any of its Restricted  Subsidiaries  or
its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made
by the Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries,  and (iv) will not result
in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of
its Restricted Subsidiaries.

     Section 3.04     Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.

     (a) The Borrower has heretofore  furnished to the Lenders its  consolidated
balance sheet and statements of income,  stockholders' equity and cash flows (i)
as of and for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2002,  reported on by Ernst &
Young LLP, independent public accountants,  and as of and for the fiscal quarter
and the portion of the fiscal year ended  September  30, 2003,  certified by its
Financial  Officer.  Such financial  statements  present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the
Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods
in accordance with GAAP,  subject to year-end audit  adjustments and the absence
of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.

     (b) Since  December 31, 2002,  through and including  the  Effective  Date,
there has been no change which could  reasonably  be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect.

                                       38


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section  3.05   Properties.   Each  of  the  Borrower  and  its  Restricted
Subsidiaries  has good title to, or valid  leasehold  interests in, all its real
and personal property material to its business,  except for any failure,  defect
or other matter that could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have
a Material Adverse Effect.

     Section 3.06     Litigation and Environmental Matters.

     (a) There are no actions,  suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator
or Governmental  Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower,
threatened  against or affecting  the Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries  that
could reasonably be expected,  individually or in the aggregate,  to result in a
Material  Adverse  Effect  (other  than the  Disclosed  Matters)  or,  as of the
Effective Date, that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.

     (b) Except for the  Disclosed  Matters and except with respect to any other
matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected
to result in a Material  Adverse  Effect,  neither the  Borrower  nor any of its
Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any  Environmental  Law or to obtain,
maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any
Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii)
has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental  Liability or
(iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.

     Section 3.07 Compliance with Laws . Each of the Borrower and its Restricted
Subsidiaries  is in  compliance  with all laws,  regulations  and  orders of any
Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property except where the failure
to do so, individually or in the aggregate,  could not reasonably be expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.

     Section 3.08 Investment and Holding  Company  Status.  Neither the Borrower
nor any of its  Subsidiaries  is (a) an  "investment  company" as defined in, or
subject  to  regulation  under,  the  Investment  Company  Act of  1940 or (b) a
"holding  company" as defined  in, or subject to  regulation  under,  the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

     Section 3.09 Taxes.  Each of the Borrower and its  Restricted  Subsidiaries
has timely  filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports  required to
have been  filed and has paid or  caused to be paid all Taxes  required  to have
been paid by it,  except  (a) Taxes for which the  Borrower  or such  Restricted
Subsidiary,  as  applicable,  has  set  aside  on its  books  adequate  reserves
including,  Taxes  that  are  being  contested  in  good  faith  by  appropriate
proceedings  or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably
be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

     Section 3.10 ERISA.  No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably  expected
to occur that,  when taken  together  with all other such ERISA Events for which
liability  is  reasonably  expected to occur,  could  reasonably  be expected to
result in a Material  Adverse Effect.  The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate has
fulfilled its obligations  under the minimum funding  standards of ERISA and the
Code with respect to each Plan and is in  compliance  in all  material  respects

                                       39


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


with the presently  applicable  provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to
each Plan.  Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has (a) sought a waiver
of the minimum funding  standard under Section 412 of the Code in respect of any
Plan,  (b)  failed  to  make  any   contribution  or  payment  to  any  Plan  or
Multiemployer Plan, or made any amendment to any Plan that has resulted or could
result in the  imposition  of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other  security
under ERISA or the Code, or (c) incurred any  liability  under Title IV of ERISA
other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA that
are not past due.

     Section 3.11 Disclosure.  The information  furnished by or on behalf of the
Borrower  to the  Administrative  Agent or any  Lender  in  connection  with the
negotiation   of  this   Agreement  or  delivered   hereunder  (as  modified  or
supplemented by other information so furnished),  taken as a whole,  contains no
material  misstatement of fact nor omits to state any material fact necessary to
make the statements  therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they
were made, not materially  misleading;  provided that, with respect to projected
financial  information,  the Borrower  represents only that such information was
prepared in good faith based upon  assumptions  believed to be reasonable at the
time.

                                   ARTICLE IV
                                   CONDITIONS

     Section 4.01 Effective  Date. The  obligations of the Lenders to make Loans
and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit  hereunder  shall not become
effective until the date on which each of the following  conditions is satisfied
(or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):

     (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each
party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such
party or (ii) written evidence  satisfactory to the Administrative  Agent (which
may include telecopy  transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement)
that  such  party  has  signed  a  counterpart  of  this   Agreement.   (b)  The
Administrative  Agent  shall have  received  from each  Subsidiary  Guarantor  a
Subsidiary  Guaranty  in  substantially  the form  attached  hereto as Exhibit D
signed on behalf of such Subsidiary Guarantor.

     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received favorable written opinions
(addressed to the  Administrative  Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective
Date) of Mark  Withrow,  general  counsel  of the  Borrower,  and of  Thompson &
Knight, LLP, outside counsel for the Borrower and Subsidiary Guarantor, covering
those matters described on Exhibit C. The Borrower hereby requests such counsels
to deliver such opinions.

     (d) The  Administrative  Agent  shall  have  received  such  documents  and
certificates as the  Administrative  Agent or its counsel may reasonably request
relating to the organization,  existence and good standing of each Obligor,  the
authorization  of the  Transactions and any other legal matters relating to each
Obligor,  this  Agreement  or  the  Transactions,  all  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.

     (e) The Administrative  Agent shall have received a certificate,  dated the
Effective  Date and signed by the  President,  a Vice  President  or a Financial
Officer of the Borrower,  confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.02.

                                       40


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (f) The Administrative  Agent, Lenders and Co-Arrangers shall have received
all fees and other  amounts due and payable on or prior to the  Effective  Date,
including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket
expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.

     (g) All  commitments  under the Existing  Credit  Agreement shall have been
terminated  in full  and all  amounts  outstanding  under  the  Existing  Credit
Agreement shall have been paid in full.

     The  Administrative  Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the
Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding
the foregoing,  the  obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing
Banks to issue Letters of Credit  hereunder  shall not become  effective  unless
each of the foregoing  conditions  is satisfied  (or waived  pursuant to Section
9.02) at or prior to 3:00 p.m.,  New York City time,  on December 31, 2003 (and,
in the event such  conditions  are not so satisfied or waived,  the  Commitments
shall terminate at such time).

     Section 4.02 Each Credit  Event.  The  obligation  of each Lender to make a
Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Banks to issue, amend,
renew or extend  any Letter of Credit,  is  subject to the  satisfaction  of the
following conditions:

     (a) The  representations  and  warranties of the Borrower set forth in this
Agreement  and  of  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  set  forth  in  the  Subsidiary
Guaranties  shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing or
the date of the  issuance,  amendment,  renewal or  extension  of such Letter of
Credit, as applicable.

     (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or
the  issuance,  amendment,  renewal or  extension  of such Letter of Credit,  as
applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.

     (c) Prior to the Mid-Investment  Grade Date, there has been no change since
December  31,  2002 that has  resulted  in a Material  Adverse  Effect  which is
continuing.

     Each  Borrowing  and each  issuance,  amendment,  renewal or extension of a
Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation  and warranty by
the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters  specified in paragraphs (a),
(b) and, prior to the Mid-Investment Grade Date, (c) of this Section.

                                   ARTICLE V
                              AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS

     Until the Commitments  have expired or been terminated and the principal of
and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in
full and all  Letters of Credit  shall have  expired  or  terminated  and all LC
Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with
the Lenders that:

     Section 5.01 Financial Statements and Other Information.  The Borrower will
furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:

     (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the  Borrower,  its
audited  consolidated  balance  sheet  and  related  statements  of  operations,
stockholders'  equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting

                                       41


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year,
all  reported  on by  independent  public  accountants  of  recognized  national
standing  (without a "going concern" or like  qualification or exception) to the
effect  that  such  consolidated  financial  statements  present  fairly  in all
material  respects the  financial  condition  and results of  operations  of the
Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance
with GAAP consistently applied;

     (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters
of each fiscal year of the Borrower,  its consolidated balance sheet and related
statements of operations,  stockholders'  equity and cash flows as of the end of
and for such fiscal  quarter and the then  elapsed  portion of the fiscal  year,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding
period or periods of (or,  in the case of the balance  sheet,  as of the end of)
the previous  fiscal year prepared on a basis  consistent with that used on Form
10Q as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission,  all certified by one
of its  Financial  Officers as  presenting  fairly in all material  respects the
financial   condition  and  results  of  operations  of  the  Borrower  and  its
consolidated  Subsidiaries  on a  consolidated  basis in  accordance  with  GAAP
consistently  applied,  subject to normal  year-end  audit  adjustments  and the
absence of footnotes;

     (c) simultaneously  with the delivery of the financial  statements referred
to in subsections  (a) or (b) of this Section 5.01, a copy of the  certification
signed by the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer of
the Borrower (each, a "Certifying Officer") as required by Rule 13A-14 under the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and a copy of the internal controls  disclosure
statement  by such  Certifying  Officers as  required  by Rule 13A-15  under the
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 and Final  Rules  Release  No.  33-8238 of the
United  States  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  each as  included in the
Borrower's  Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the
applicable fiscal period;

     (d)   concurrently   with  any  delivery  of  financial   statements  under
subsections  (a) or (b) of this  Section  5.01,  a  certificate  of a  Financial
Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and,
if a Default has occurred,  specifying the details  thereof and any action taken
or proposed to be taken with respect thereto,  and (ii) setting forth reasonably
detailed  calculations  demonstrating  compliance with Section 6.04(a),  (b) and
(c);

     (e)  promptly  after  the same  become  publicly  available,  copies of all
periodic and other reports,  proxy  statements and other  materials filed by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange  Commission,  or any
Governmental  Authority  succeeding  to any or all  of  the  functions  of  said
Commission,  or with any national  securities  exchange,  or  distributed by the
Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be;

     (f)  promptly  after  Moody's or S&P shall have  announced  a change in the
rating  established  or  deemed  to have been  established  for the Index  Debt,
written notice of such rating change; and

                                       42


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (g) prior to the  Investment  Grade Date and prior to April 30 of each year
(commencing  April 30, 2004),  the Borrower shall furnish to the  Administrative
Agent and to each Lender a Reserve  Report,  which Reserve Report shall be dated
as of the  immediately  preceding  December  31 and shall  set forth the  Proved
Reserves  attributable to all or substantially all of the Oil and Gas Properties
then  owned  by  the  Borrower  and  its  Restricted  Subsidiaries  and  the  PV
attributable thereto as contemplated in the definition of Reserve Report;

     (h)  promptly  following  any  request  therefor,  such  other  information
regarding  the  operations,  business  affairs and  financial  condition  of the
Borrower or any Subsidiary,  or compliance with the terms of this Agreement,  as
the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.

     Section 5.02 Notices of Material  Events.  The Borrower will furnish to the
Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:

     (a) the occurrence of any Default;

     (b) the filing or  commencement  of any action,  suit or  proceeding  by or
before  any  arbitrator  or  Governmental  Authority  against or  affecting  the
Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in
a Material Adverse Effect if adversely determined;

     (c) the  occurrence  of any ERISA  Event that,  alone or together  with any
other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in
liability of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding
$25,000,000; and

     (d) any other  development that results in, or could reasonably be expected
to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.

     Each  notice  delivered  under  this  Section  shall  be  accompanied  by a
statement of a Financial  Officer of the Borrower  setting  forth the details of
the event or development  requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed
to be taken with respect thereto.

     Section 5.03  Existence;  Conduct of Business.  The Borrower will, and will
cause each of its Restricted  Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things
necessary  to  preserve,  renew  and keep in full  force  and  effect  its legal
existence and the rights, licenses,  permits, privileges and franchises material
to the conduct of its business  except for any failure to maintain,  preserve or
qualify that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
provided  that the foregoing  shall not prohibit (i) any merger,  consolidation,
liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03 or (ii) a termination of
such  existence,  good  standing,  rights  licenses,   permits,  privileges  and
franchises of any  Restricted  Subsidiary  if Borrower  determines in good faith
that  such  termination  is in the best  interest  of  Borrower  and  could  not
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

     Section 5.04 Payment of Obligations. The Borrower will, and will cause each
of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if
not paid,  could  reasonably be expected to result in a Material  Adverse Effect
before the same shall  become  delinquent  or in default,  except  where (a) the
validity  or amount  thereof is being  contested  in good  faith by  appropriate
proceedings,  and (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books
adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP.

                                       43


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 5.05 Maintenance of Properties;  Insurance.  The Borrower will, and
will cause each of its  Restricted  Subsidiaries  to, (a) keep and  maintain all
property  material to the  conduct of its  business  in good  working  order and
condition,  ordinary wear and tear  excepted,  except for any failure that could
reasonably be expected to result in a Material  Adverse Effect and (b) maintain,
with  financially  sound and reputable  insurance  companies,  insurance in such
amounts  and  against  such risks as are  customarily  maintained  by  companies
engaged  in the same or  similar  businesses  operating  in the same or  similar
locations.

     Section 5.06 Books and Records;  Inspection  Rights. The Borrower will, and
will cause each of its  Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account
in  which  full,  true  and  correct  entries  are  made  of  all  dealings  and
transactions in relation to its business and activities.  The Borrower will, and
will cause each of its Restricted  Subsidiaries  to, permit any  representatives
designated by the  Administrative  Agent or any Lender,  upon  reasonable  prior
notice,  to visit and inspect its properties,  to examine and make extracts from
its books and records,  and to discuss its affairs,  finances and condition with
its officers and independent  accountants,  all at such reasonable  times and as
often as reasonably requested.

     Section 5.07  Compliance  with Laws. The Borrower will, and will cause each
of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws,  rules,  regulations and orders of
any Governmental  Authority  applicable to it or its property,  except where the
failure to do so,  individually  or in the  aggregate,  could not  reasonably be
expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

     Section  5.08 Use of Proceeds  and Letters of Credit.  The  proceeds of the
Loans  will be used to repay  outstanding  bank debt and for  general  corporate
purposes.  No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or
indirectly,  for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the  Regulations
of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X.

     Section 5.09  Operations.  Borrower  will,  and will cause each  Restricted
Subsidiary to, maintain as its primary business the exploration,  production and
development of oil,  natural gas and other liquid and gaseous  Hydrocarbons  and
the  gathering,  processing,  transmission  and  marketing of  Hydrocarbons  and
activities related or ancillary thereto.

                                   ARTICLE VI
                               NEGATIVE COVENANTS

     Until the  Commitments  have expired or terminated and the principal of and
interest on each Loan and all fees payable  hereunder have been paid in full and
all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements  shall
have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:

     Section 6.01  Indebtedness.  The Borrower will not, and will not permit any
Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist (collectively
"incur") any Indebtedness if the Borrower would be in breach of any covenant set
forth in Section 6.04 as a result of such incurrence.

                                       44


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section  6.02  Liens.  The  Borrower  will  not,  and will not  permit  any
Restricted  Subsidiary to, create,  incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on
any property or asset now owned or  hereafter  acquired by it, or assign or sell
any income or revenues (including  accounts  receivable) or rights in respect of
any thereof, except:

     (a) Permitted Encumbrances;

     (b) any Lien on any  property or asset of the  Borrower  or any  Restricted
Subsidiary  existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.02; provided
that  (i) such  Lien  shall  not  apply to any  other  property  or asset of the
Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those
obligations  which it secures on the date hereof and  extensions,  renewals  and
replacements  thereof  that do not  increase the  outstanding  principal  amount
thereof;

     (c) any Lien on any  property or asset  existing  prior to the  acquisition
thereof by the  Borrower or any  Subsidiary  or on any  property or asset of any
Person that becomes a  Subsidiary  after the date hereof  existing  prior to the
time such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is
not created in  contemplation  of or in connection with such acquisition or such
Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply
to any other  property or assets of the Borrower or any  Restricted  Subsidiary,
and (iv) such Lien shall secure only those  obligations  which it secures on the
date of such  acquisition or the date such Person  becomes a Subsidiary,  as the
case  may be and  extensions,  renewals  and  replacements  thereof  that do not
increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;

     (d)  Liens  created  in  connection  with  the  acquisition,   development,
construction  or  improvement  by the Borrower or any  Restricted  Subsidiary of
fixed or  capital  assets;  provided  that (i) such  Liens  secure  Indebtedness
permitted by Section  6.01 and all  Indebtedness  secured by Liens  permitted by
this clause does not exceed  $100,000,000  in the aggregate  outstanding  at any
time, (ii) such Liens and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to
or within 180 days after such acquisition or the completion of such development,
construction or  improvement,  (iii) the  Indebtedness  secured thereby does not
exceed 100% of the cost of acquiring, developing, constructing or improving such
fixed or capital  assets and (iv) such Liens shall not apply to any  property or
assets of the  Borrower or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  other than such fixed or
capital assets so acquired,  developed,  constructed or improved and other fixed
or capital assets that are developed or improved thereby or otherwise reasonably
related  thereto (in the good faith  determination  of the Borrower) and working
capital assets related  thereto  (including but not limited to revenue from, and
insurance,  condemnation,  sale and other proceeds of, any such fixed or capital
assets); and extensions,  renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase
the outstanding principal amount thereof.

     (e) Liens securing obligations owing under this Agreement; and

     (f) Liens on deposits  pursuant to any Swap  Agreement  entered into by the
Borrower or any  Restricted  Subsidiary in the ordinary  course of its business,
not to exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate amount outstanding at any time.

                                       45


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 6.03     Fundamental Changes.

     (a) The Borrower  will not, and will not permit any  Subsidiary  Guarantors
to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person,  or permit any other Person
to merge into or consolidate  with it or liquidate or dissolve,  except that, if
at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall
have occurred and be continuing,  (i) any  Subsidiary  Guarantors may merge into
the  Borrower  in  a  transaction   in  which  the  Borrower  is  the  surviving
corporation,  (ii) any  Person  may merge into any  Subsidiary  Guarantors  in a
transaction  in  which  the  surviving  entity  is  a  wholly-owned   Subsidiary
Guarantor,  (iii) any Person may merge into the  Borrower  in a  transaction  in
which the surviving  entity is the Borrower and (iv) any  Subsidiary  Guarantors
may  liquidate  or dissolve if the Borrower  determines  in good faith that such
liquidation  or  dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not
materially disadvantageous to the Lenders.

     (b) The Borrower will not sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in
one transaction or in a series of transactions)  all or substantially all of its
assets,  or all or substantially  all of the stock of the Subsidiary  Guarantors
(in each case,  whether now owned or hereafter  acquired)  other than to another
Subsidiary Guarantor.

     Section 6.04     Financial Covenants.

     (a) Prior to the Investment  Grade Date,  the Borrower will not permit,  at
any time, the ratio of the PV to Total Debt to be less than 1.25 to 1.0.

     (b) The Borrower shall not permit,  at any time, the ratio of Total Debt to
Total Cap to be greater than 0.60 to 1.0.

     (c) The Borrower will not permit, as of the end of any fiscal quarter,  the
ratio  of the  Borrower's  Consolidated  EBITDAX  to its  Consolidated  Interest
Expense for the four fiscal  quarters ending on such date to be less than 3.5 to
1.0.

     Section 6.05 Investments,  Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions.(a)
The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to
make any  loans or  advances  to,  Guarantee  any  obligations  of,  or make any
investment or any other interest in, any Unrestricted  Subsidiaries  except that
the Borrower or any  Restricted  Subsidiaries  may make loans or advances to, or
investments or other  interests in  Unrestricted  Subsidiaries if at the time of
the making of such loan,  advance,  investment  or other  interest the aggregate
book value of assets  (plus the  aggregate  amount of any  non-cash  write downs
therein under Statements of Financial  Accounting Standard Nos. 19, 109, 142 and
144 (and any statements replacing, modifying, or superceding any such Statement)
after  December  31,  2002,  net of  associate  taxes) of the  Borrower  and its
Restricted  Subsidiaries  on a  consolidated  basis  (excluding  investments  in
Unrestricted Subsidiaries) exceeds $2,750,000,000.

     (b)  No  Subsidiary  shall  Guarantee  any  Indebtedness  included  in  the
definition  of Total  Debt  unless  it shall  have  previously  or  concurrently
therewith  executed and  delivered a Subsidiary  Guaranty to the  Administrative
Agent together with the items in Sections  4.01(c) and (d) as to such Subsidiary
Guarantor and the Subsidiary Guaranty.

                                       46


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 6.06 Swap  Agreements.  The Borrower  will not, and will not permit
any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a)
Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which the Borrower or
any Restricted  Subsidiary has actual or projected exposure (other than those in
respect of Equity  Interests  of the Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries),  (b)
Swap  Agreements  entered into in order to effectively  cap,  collar or exchange
interest rates (from fixed to floating rates,  from one floating rate to another
floating rate or otherwise)  with respect to any  interest-bearing  liability or
investment  of the  Borrower  or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  and (c) other Swap
Agreements  permitted  under  the  risk  management  policies  approved  by  the
Borrower's  Board of Directors from time to time and not subjecting the Borrower
and its Restricted Subsidiaries to material speculative risks.

     Section 6.07 Transactions with Affiliates.  The Borrower will not, and will
not permit any of its  Restricted  Subsidiaries  to,  sell,  lease or  otherwise
transfer any property or assets to, or purchase,  lease or otherwise acquire any
property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any
of its Affiliates,  except (a) transfers on fair and reasonable  terms,  and (b)
transactions  between  or among the  Borrower  and its  wholly-owned  Restricted
Subsidiaries not involving any other Affiliate.

     Section 6.08  Restrictive  Agreements.  The Borrower will not, and will not
permit any of its Restricted  Subsidiaries  to,  directly or  indirectly,  enter
into,  incur or  permit  to  exist  any  agreement  or  other  arrangement  that
prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon the ability of any Restricted
Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of
its capital  stock or to make or repay loans or advances to the  Borrower or any
other Restricted Subsidiary or to Guarantee  Indebtedness of the Borrower or any
other Restricted Subsidiary;  provided that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to
restrictions  and  conditions  imposed  by law or by this  Agreement,  (ii)  the
foregoing  shall not apply to restrictions  and conditions  existing on the date
hereof  identified on Schedule 6.08 (but shall apply to any extension or renewal
of,  or  any  amendment  or  modification  expanding  the  scope  of,  any  such
restriction or condition)  and (iii) the foregoing  shall not apply to customary
restrictions  and conditions  contained in agreements  relating to the sale of a
Subsidiary  pending such sale,  provided such  restrictions and conditions apply
only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder.

                                  ARTICLE VII
                                EVENTS OF DEFAULT

     If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur:

     (a)  the  Borrower  shall  fail  to pay any  principal  of any  Loan or any
reimbursement  obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same
shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed
for prepayment thereof or otherwise;

     (b) the  Borrower  shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or
any other  amount  (other  than an  amount  referred  to in  clause  (a) of this
Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and
payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days;

     (c) any  representation  or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of
the  Borrower  or  any  Subsidiary  Guarantor  in or  in  connection  with  this
Agreement,  any Subsidiary  Guaranty or any amendment or modification  hereof or
waiver  hereunder  or  thereunder,  or in  any  report,  certificate,  financial
statement or other  document  furnished  pursuant to or in connection  with this

                                       47


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Agreement,  any Subsidiary  Guaranty or any amendment or modification  hereof or
thereof or any waiver hereof or thereof,  shall prove to have been  incorrect in
any  material  respect  when made or deemed  made and  either  (1) an  Executive
Officer of Borrower had actual  knowledge that such  representation  or warranty
was false or  incorrect  in a material  respect when made or (2) if no Executive
Officer had such knowledge, such representation or warranty shall continue to be
false or incorrect in any material  respect  thirty (30) Business Days after the
earlier of an Executive  Officer of Borrower  obtaining actual knowledge thereof
or written  notice  thereof  shall have been sent to Borrower by  Administrative
Agent or by any Lender;

     (d) the Borrower  shall fail to observe or perform any covenant,  condition
or  agreement  contained  in  Section  5.02,  Section  5.03(with  respect to the
Borrower's existence), or Section 5.08 or in ARTICLE VI;

     (e) the  Borrower  or any  Subsidiary  Guarantor  shall  fail to observe or
perform any covenant,  condition or agreement contained in this Agreement or any
Subsidiary  Guaranty  (other than those  specified  in clause (a), (b) or (d) of
this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof from the  Administrative  Agent to the Borrower (which
notice will be given at the request of any Lender);

     (f) the  Borrower  or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  shall  fail to make  any
payment of principal or interest in respect of any Material  Indebtedness (other
than in respect of any Swap  Agreement),  when and as the same shall  become due
and  payable or any event or  condition  occurs  that  results  in any  Material
Indebtedness  (including in respect of any Swap Agreement) becoming due prior to
its  scheduled  maturity or that enables or permits the holder or holders of any
Material  Indebtedness  (other  than in  respect of any Swap  Agreement)  or any
trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause such Material  Indebtedness  to
become due, or to require the prepayment,  repurchase,  redemption or defeasance
thereof,  prior to its scheduled maturity, and such event or condition continues
beyond any  applicable  period of grace  provided  therefor,  provided that this
clause (f) shall not apply to secured  Indebtedness that becomes due as a result
of the  voluntary  sale or transfer  of the  property  or assets  securing  such
Indebtedness to the extent such Indebtedness is paid when due;

     (g) any event or condition  occurs of the type  customarily  included as an
event of default under  International Swap Dealers Association master agreements
(with  respect  to  which  the  Borrower  or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  is the
defaulting  party) that enables or permits the holder or holders of any Material
Indebtedness  under a Swap  Agreement  to declare an early  termination  date or
otherwise cause such Material  Indebtedness to become due prior to its scheduled
maturity and such event or condition  continues beyond any applicable  period of
grace provided therefor, except where such event or condition is being contested
in good faith;

     (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition
shall be filed  seeking  (i)  liquidation,  reorganization  or other  relief  in
respect of the  Borrower  or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  or its debts,  or of a
substantial part of its assets, under any Federal,  state or foreign bankruptcy,
insolvency,  receivership  or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the
appointment  of a receiver,  trustee,  custodian,  sequestrator,  conservator or
similar  official  for  the  Borrower  or  any  Restricted  Subsidiary  or for a
substantial  part of its  assets,  and,  in any such case,  such  proceeding  or
petition shall continue  undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving
or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;

                                       48


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     (i)  the  Borrower  or any  Restricted  Subsidiary  shall  (i)  voluntarily
commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization
or other  relief  under any Federal,  state or foreign  bankruptcy,  insolvency,
receivership  or similar law now or  hereafter  in effect,  (ii)  consent to the
institution  of, or fail to  contest  in a timely and  appropriate  manner,  any
proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article,  (iii) apply for
or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee,  custodian,  sequestrator,
conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or
for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material
allegations  of a petition filed against it in any such  proceeding,  (v) make a
general  assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the
purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;

     (j) the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in
writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;

     (k) one or more  judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate  amount
in excess of $75,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower,  any Restricted
Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for
a period of 30 consecutive  days during which execution shall not be effectively
stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or
levy  upon any  material  domestic  assets  of the  Borrower  or any  Restricted
Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;

     (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required
Lenders,  when taken  together  with all other ERISA Events that have  occurred,
could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or

     (m) a Change in Control shall occur;

then,  and in every such event  (other than an event with  respect to an Obligor
described  in clause  (h) or (i) of this  Article),  and at any time  thereafter
during the continuance of such event, the  Administrative  Agent may, and at the
request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or
both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the
Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii)
declare the Loans then  outstanding  to be due and payable in whole (or in part,
in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter
be declared to be due and payable),  and thereupon the principal of the Loans so
declared to be due and payable,  together with accrued  interest thereon and all
fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued  hereunder,  shall become due
and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of
any kind,  all of which are hereby  waived by the  Borrower;  and in case of any
event with respect to an Obligor described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article,
the  Commitments  shall  automatically  terminate and the principal of the Loans
then outstanding,  together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other
obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder,  shall  automatically  become due
and payable,  without presentment,  demand, protest or other notice of any kind,
all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.

                                       49


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                            THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT

     Section  8.01  Administrative  Agent.  Each of the  Lenders and the Issuing
Banks  hereby  irrevocably  appoints the  Administrative  Agent as its agent and
authorizes  the  Administrative  Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to
exercise such powers as are delegated to the  Administrative  Agent by the terms
hereof,  together  with such  actions  and powers as are  reasonably  incidental
thereto.

     The bank serving as the Administrative  Agent hereunder shall have the same
rights  and  powers in its  capacity  as a Lender as any  other  Lender  and may
exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative  Agent, and such bank
and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally  engage
in any kind of business with the Borrower or any  Subsidiary or other  Affiliate
thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.

     The  Administrative  Agent shall not have any duties or obligations  except
those  expressly  set forth  herein.  Without  limiting  the  generality  of the
foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or
other  implied  duties,  regardless  of whether a Default  has  occurred  and is
continuing,  (b) the  Administrative  Agent  shall not have any duty to take any
discretionary action or exercise any discretionary  powers, except discretionary
rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is
required to exercise  in writing as  directed by the  Required  Lenders (or such
other  number or  percentage  of the  Lenders  as shall be  necessary  under the
circumstances  as provided in Section  9.02),  and (c) except as  expressly  set
forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose,  and
shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the
Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries  that is communicated to or obtained by the
bank serving as  Administrative  Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The  Administrative  Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken
by it with the consent or at the request of the Required  Lenders (or such other
number  or  percentage   of  the  Lenders  as  shall  be  necessary   under  the
circumstances  as provided  in Section  9.02) or in the absence of its own gross
negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative  Agent shall be deemed not
to have  knowledge of any Default  unless and until  written  notice  thereof is
given  to the  Administrative  Agent  by  the  Borrower  or a  Lender,  and  the
Administrative  Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain
or inquire  into (i) any  statement,  warranty or  representation  made in or in
connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate,  report or
other  document  delivered  hereunder  or  in  connection  herewith,  (iii)  the
performance or observance of any of the covenants,  agreements or other terms or
conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or
genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or
(v) the  satisfaction  of any  condition  set forth in Article  IV or  elsewhere
herein,  other  than to  confirm  receipt  of  items  expressly  required  to be
delivered to the Administrative Agent.

     The  Administrative  Agent shall be  entitled  to rely upon,  and shall not
incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent,
statement,  instrument,  document or other writing  believed by it to be genuine
and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The  Administrative  Agent
also may rely upon any statement  made to it orally or by telephone and believed

                                       50


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


by it to be made by the proper  Person,  and shall not incur any  liability  for
relying thereon.  The  Administrative  Agent may consult with legal counsel (who
may be counsel for the  Borrower),  independent  accountants  and other  experts
selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action  taken or not taken by it
in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.

     The  Administrative  Agent may perform any and all its duties and  exercise
its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents  appointed by the
Administrative  Agent.  The  Administrative  Agent  and any such  sub-agent  may
perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers  through their
respective  Related  Parties.  The  exculpatory   provisions  of  the  preceding
paragraphs  shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related  Parties of the
Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective
activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities  provided
for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.

     Subject to the  appointment  and  acceptance of a successor  Administrative
Agent as provided in this paragraph,  the Administrative Agent may resign at any
time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such
resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the
Borrower,  to appoint a successor.  If no successor shall have been so appointed
by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment  within 30 days
after the retiring  Administrative  Agent gives notice of its resignation,  then
the retiring  Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing
Banks , appoint a successor  Administrative  Agent.  Upon the  acceptance of its
appointment as  Administrative  Agent  hereunder by a successor,  such successor
shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights,  powers,  privileges and
duties of the retiring  Administrative  Agent,  and the retiring  Administrative
Agent shall be discharged  from its duties and obligations  hereunder.  The fees
payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as
those payable to its predecessor  unless  otherwise  agreed between the Borrower
and such successor.  After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the
provisions  of this  Article and Section  9.03 shall  continue in effect for the
benefit  of  such  retiring  Administrative  Agent,  its  sub-agents  and  their
respective  Related  Parties in respect  of any  actions  taken or omitted to be
taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.

     Each Lender  acknowledges  that it has,  independently and without reliance
upon the  Administrative  Agent or any other Lender and based on such  documents
and information as it has deemed  appropriate,  made its own credit analysis and
decision to enter into this  Agreement.  Each Lender also  acknowledges  that it
will,  independently and without reliance upon the  Administrative  Agent or any
other Lender and based on such  documents and  information as it shall from time
to time deem  appropriate,  continue to make its own  decisions in taking or not
taking action under or based upon this Agreement,  any related  agreement or any
document furnished hereunder or thereunder.

     Section 8.02 The  Co-Arrangers,  Joint  Bookrunners,  Syndication Agent and
Co-Documentation Agents The Co-Arrangers,  Joint Bookrunners,  Syndication Agent
and   Co-Documentation   Agents  shall  have  no  duties,   responsibilities  or
liabilities  under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents  other than their
duties,  responsibilities  and  liabilities  in their  capacity  as Lenders  (or
Issuing Bank, if applicable) hereunder.

                                       51


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                   ARTICLE IX
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

     Section   9.01   Notices.   Except  in  the  case  of  notices   and  other
communications  expressly  permitted  to be given by  telephone  (and subject to
paragraph (b) below), all notices and other  communications  provided for herein
shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service,
mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:

     (a) if to the  Borrower,  to 5205  North  O'Connor  Boulevard,  Suite  900,
Irving,  Texas,  75039,  Attention  of  Timothy  L. Dove  (Facsimile  No.  (972)
969-3572);

     (b) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, Loan and Agency
Services Group, 1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas, 77002, Attention
of Ms. Janene English  (Facsimile No. (713)  427-6307),  with a copy to JPMorgan
Chase Bank, 600 Travis Street, 20th Floor,  Houston,  Texas 77002,  Attention of
Mr. Peter Licalzi (Facsimile No. (713) 216-4117);

     (c) if to the  Issuing  Banks,  to  JPMorgan  Chase Bank at the address set
forth in  paragraph  (b) above,  to Bank of America at its address (or  telecopy
number) set forth below

                           Bank of America, N.A.
                           Trade Finance Service Center
                           333 S. Beaudry Avenue
                           Mail Code:  CA9-703-19-23
                           Los Angeles, California 90017-1466
                           Attn:  Thelma Chan
                           Telephone:  (213) 345-0084
                           Fax:  (213) 345-6684

     (d) if to the Swingline Lenders,  to JPMorgan Chase Bank at the address set
forth in paragraph (b) above,  to Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association  at its
address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.

     (e) if to any other Lender,  to it at its address (or telecopy  number) set
forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.

     (f) Notices and communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or
furnished by electronic  communications  pursuant to procedures  approved by the
Administrative  Agent;  provided that the  foregoing  shall not apply to notices
pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the  Administrative  Agent and
the  applicable  Lender.  The  Administrative  Agent or the Borrower may, in its
discretion,  agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by
electronic  communications  pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that
approval  of  such   procedures   may  be  limited  to  particular   notices  or
communications.

                                       52


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy  number for notices and
other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto, or, in the
case of any Lender, to the  Administrative  Agent and the Borrower.  All notices
and other  communications  given to any  party  hereto  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this  Agreement  shall be deemed to have been given on the date of
receipt.

     Section 9.02     Waivers; Amendments.

     (a) No failure or delay by the  Administrative  Agent, the Issuing Banks or
any Lender in exercising any right or power  hereunder shall operate as a waiver
thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or
any  abandonment  or  discontinuance  of steps to enforce such a right or power,
preclude  any other or further  exercise  thereof or the  exercise  of any other
right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing
Banks and the Lenders  hereunder  are  cumulative  and are not  exclusive of any
rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of
this  Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower  therefrom  shall in
any event be effective  unless the same shall be  permitted by paragraph  (b) of
this  Section,  and then such waiver or consent  shall be effective  only in the
specific  instance  and for the purpose for which  given.  Without  limiting the
generality  of the  foregoing,  the making of a Loan or  issuance of a Letter of
Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default,  regardless of whether
the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Banks may have had notice or
knowledge of such Default at the time.

     (b) Neither this Agreement, any provision hereof, nor any provisions of the
Subsidiary  Guaranties may be waived,  amended or modified except pursuant to an
agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required
Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative  Agent with the consent of the
Required  Lenders;  provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase or extend
the  Commitment of any Lender without the written  consent of such Lender,  (ii)
reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of
interest  thereon,  or reduce any fees  payable  hereunder,  without the written
consent of each Lender  affected  thereby,  (iii) postpone the scheduled date of
payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement,  or any interest
thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse
any  such  payment,  or  postpone  the  scheduled  date  of  expiration  of  any
Commitment,  without the written consent of each Lender affected  thereby,  (iv)
change  Section 2.09 or Section  2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the
pro rata treatment of Lenders or pro rata sharing of payments  required thereby,
without the written consent of each Lender,  or (v) change any of the provisions
of this Section or the definition of "Required  Lenders" or any other  provision
hereof  specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive,  amend
or modify any rights  hereunder or make any  determination  or grant any consent
hereunder,  without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no
such agreement shall amend,  modify or otherwise  affect the rights or duties of
the  Administrative  Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Swingline Lenders hereunder
without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks
or the Swingline Lenders, as the case may be.

                                       53


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 9.03     Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.

     (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay (i) all  reasonable  out-of-pocket  expenses
incurred by the  Administrative  Agent and the Co-Arranger and their Affiliates,
including the  reasonable  fees,  charges and  disbursements  of counsel for the
Administrative   Agent,  in  connection  with  the  syndication  of  the  credit
facilities  provided for herein,  the  preparation  and  administration  of this
Agreement and the  Subsidiary  Guaranties or any  amendments,  modifications  or
waivers of the provisions  hereof (whether or not the transactions  contemplated
hereby or  thereby  shall be  consummated),  (ii) all  reasonable  out-of-pocket
expenses  incurred  by the  Issuing  Banks  in  connection  with  the  issuance,
amendment,  renewal  or  extension  of any  Letter of Credit or any  demand  for
payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable  out-of-pocket  expenses incurred by
the  Administrative  Agent,  the  Issuing  Banks or any  Lender,  including  the
reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative
Agent,  the Issuing Banks or any Lender,  in connection  with the enforcement or
protection of its rights in connection  with this  Agreement and the  Subsidiary
Guaranties,  including its rights under this Section,  or in connection with the
Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder,  including all such reasonable
out-of-pocket   expenses   incurred   during  any  workout,   restructuring   or
negotiations  in respect of such  Loans or  Letters of Credit.  Attorneys'  fees
reimbursed by Borrower in  connection  with the matters under clause (iii) above
shall  be for a  single  law  firm  per  country  (unless  conflicts  (including
conflicts  between the  Administrative  Agent,  the  Co-Arrangers  and the other
Lenders as determined  in the  reasonable  discretion  of the Required  Lenders)
otherwise  prohibit  the  engagement  of a single law firm) plus a single  local
counsel in each jurisdiction where local counsel is reasonably required.

     (b) The Borrower  shall  indemnify the  Administrative  Agent,  the Issuing
Banks , each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each
such Person  being called an  "Indemnitee")  against,  and hold each  Indemnitee
harmless  from, any and all losses,  claims,  damages,  liabilities  and related
expenses,  including  the  reasonable  fees,  charges and  disbursements  of any
counsel  for any  Indemnitee,  incurred by or  asserted  against any  Indemnitee
arising  out of, in  connection  with,  or as a result of (i) the  execution  or
delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument  contemplated  hereby,
the performance by the parties hereto of their respective  obligations hereunder
or the consummation of the Transactions or any other  transactions  contemplated
hereby,  (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds  therefrom
(including any refusal by the Issuing Banks to honor or demand for payment under
a Letter of Credit if the documents  presented in connection with such demand do
not strictly  comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit),  (iii) any actual
or alleged  presence or release of  Hazardous  Materials on or from any property
owned  or  operated  by  the  Borrower  or  any  of  its  Subsidiaries,  or  any
Environmental  Liability  related  in  any  way to  the  Borrower  or any of its
Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation
or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing,  whether based on contract, tort
or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto;
provided that such indemnity  shall not, as to any  Indemnitee,  be available to
the extent that such losses,  claims,  damages,  liabilities or related expenses
are determined by a court of competent  jurisdiction by final and  nonappealable
judgment to have  resulted  from the gross  negligence,  willful  misconduct  or
breach of contractual undertaking of such Indemnitee.

     (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount  required to be
paid by it to the  Administrative  Agent,  the  Issuing  Banks or the  Swingline
Lenders under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees
to pay to the Administrative  Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Swingline Lenders,

                                       54


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


as the case may be, such Lender's  Applicable  Percentage  (determined as of the
time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of
such unpaid amount;  provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss,
claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by
or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Swingline
Lenders in its capacity as such.

     (d) To the extent  permitted by  applicable  law,  the  Borrower  shall not
assert,  and hereby waives,  any claim against any Indemnitee,  on any theory of
liability, for special, indirect,  consequential or punitive damages (as opposed
to direct or actual damages)  arising out of, in connection with, or as a result
of, this  Agreement or any  agreement or  instrument  contemplated  hereby,  the
Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.

     (e) All amounts due under this  Section  shall be payable not later than 30
days after written demand therefor.

     Section 9.04     Successors and Assigns.

     (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit  of the  parties  hereto and their  respective  successors  and  assigns
permitted  hereby  (including any Affiliates of the Issuing Banks that issue any
Letters of Credit),  except that (i) the  Borrower  may not assign or  otherwise
transfer any of its rights or  obligations  hereunder  without the prior written
consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower
without  such  consent  shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or
otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with
this  Section.  Nothing  in this  Agreement,  expressed  or  implied,  shall  be
construed  to confer  upon any Person  (other  than the  parties  hereto,  their
respective  successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliates of
the Issuing Banks that issue any Letters of Credit), Participants (to the extent
provided  in  paragraph  (c) of  this  Section)  and,  to the  extent  expressly
contemplated  hereby, the Related Parties of each of the  Administrative  Agent,
the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim
under or by reason of this Agreement.

     (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any
Lender  may assign to one or more  assignees  all or a portion of its rights and
obligations  under this Agreement  (including all or a portion of its Commitment
and the Loans at the time  owing to it) with the  prior  written  consent  (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of:

             (A) the Borrower, provided that no consent of the Borrower shall be
required for an  assignment to a Lender,  an Affiliate of a Lender,  an Approved
Fund or,  if an Event of  Default  has  occurred  and is  continuing,  any other
assignee; and

             (B) the  Administrative  Agent,  provided  that  no consent  of the
Administrative  Agent  shall be  required  for an  assignment  of any  Revolving
Commitment  to  an  assignee  that  is a  Lender  with  a  Revolving  Commitment
immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment.

                                       55


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


         (ii) Assignments  shall  be   subject  to   the  following   additional
conditions:

             (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate
of a Lender or an  assignment  of the entire  remaining  amount of the assigning
Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans
of the assigning  Lender subject to each such  assignment  (determined as of the
date the Assignment and Assumption  with respect to such assignment is delivered
to the  Administrative  Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless each of
the Borrower and the Administrative  Agent otherwise  consent,  provided that no
such  consent of the  Borrower  shall be  required  if an Event of  Default  has
occurred and is continuing;

             (B) each  partial assignment  shall be  made as  an assignment of a
proportionate  part of all the assigning  Lender's rights and obligations  under
this Agreement, provided that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the
assignment  of a  proportionate  part of all the assigning  Lender's  rights and
obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;

             (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the
Administrative  Agent an Assignment and  Assumption,  together with a processing
and recordation fee of $3,500; and

             (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the
Administrative  Agent  an  Administrative  Questionnaire  and  comply  with  the
requirements of Section 2.17(e).


     For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b),  the term "Approved Fund" has the
following meaning:

     "Approved  Fund"  means any Person  (other than a natural  person)  that is
engaged in making,  purchasing,  holding or  investing in bank loans and similar
extensions  of  credit  in the  ordinary  course  of its  business  and  that is
administered or managed by (a) a Lender,  (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an
entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.

         (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph
(b)(iv) of this  Section,  from and after the effective  date  specified in each
Assignment and Assumption the assignee  thereunder  shall be a party hereto and,
to the extent of the interest  assigned by such Assignment and Assumption,  have
the rights and obligations of a Lender under this  Agreement,  and the assigning
Lender  thereunder  shall,  to the  extent  of the  interest  assigned  by  such
Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement
(and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption  covering all of the assigning
Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to
be a party hereto but shall  continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections
2.15,  2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or
obligations  under this  Agreement  that does not comply with this  Section 9.04
shall be treated for  purposes of this  Agreement  as a sale by such Lender of a
participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of
this Section.

                                       56


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


         (iv) The Administrative Agent,  acting for  this purpose as an agent of
the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and
Assumption  delivered to it and a register for the  recordation of the names and
addresses of the Lenders,  and the  Commitment  of, and principal  amount of the
Loans and LC  Disbursements  owing to, each Lender  pursuant to the terms hereof
from  time to time  (the  "Register").  The  entries  in the  Register  shall be
conclusive,  and the Borrower,  the Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A.,
as Issuing Bank, and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in
the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes
of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be
available for  inspection by the Borrower,  the Issuing Bank and any Lender,  at
any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

         (v) Upon  its receipt  of a  duly completed  Assignment and  Assumption
executed  by an  assigning  Lender and an  assignee,  the  assignee's  completed
Administrative  Questionnaire  (unless the  assignee  shall  already be a Lender
hereunder),  the processing and  recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and any written  consent to such  assignment  required by paragraph
(b) of this Section,  the Administrative  Agent shall accept such Assignment and
Assumption  and record the  information  contained  therein in the Register.  No
assignment  shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been
recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.

     (c) (i) Any  Lender  may,   without  the  consent  of  the  Borrower,   the
Administrative   Agent,  the  Issuing  Bank  or  the  Swingline  Lenders,   sell
participations  to one or more banks or other entities (a  "Participant") in all
or a portion of such  Lender's  rights  and  obligations  under  this  Agreement
(including  all or a  portion  of its  Commitment  and the  Loans  owing to it);
provided that (A) such Lender's  obligations  under this Agreement  shall remain
unchanged,  (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties
hereto  for the  performance  of such  obligations  and  (C) the  Borrower,  the
Administrative  Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to
deal solely and  directly  with such  Lender in  connection  with such  Lender's
rights and  obligations  under  this  Agreement.  Any  agreement  or  instrument
pursuant to which a Lender sells such a  participation  shall  provide that such
Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this  Agreement and to approve any
amendment,  modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement;  provided
that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without
the consent of the Participant,  agree to any amendment,  modification or waiver
described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant.
Subject to paragraph  (c)(ii) of this  Section,  the  Borrower  agrees that each
Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 to
the  same  extent  as if it were a  Lender  and had  acquired  its  interest  by
assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.

         (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment
under  Section 2.15 or Section 2.17 than the  applicable  Lender would have been
entitled to receive with respect to the participation  sold to such Participant,
unless  the  sale of the  participation  to such  Participant  is made  with the

                                       57


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Borrower's prior written  consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender
if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless
the Borrower is notified of the participation  sold to such Participant and such
Participant  agrees,  for the benefit of the  Borrower,  to comply with  Section
2.17(e) as though it were a Lender.

     (d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security  interest in all
or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure  obligations of such
Lender,  including  without  limitation  any  pledge  or  assignment  to  secure
obligations  to a Federal  Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any
such pledge or assignment of a security  interest;  provided that no such pledge
or  assignment  of a security  interest  shall  release a Lender from any of its
obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender
as a party hereto.

     Section 9.05  Survival.  All  covenants,  agreements,  representations  and
warranties  made  by  the  Borrower  herein  and in the  certificates  or  other
instruments  delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be
considered  to have been  relied  upon by the  other  parties  hereto  and shall
survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans
and issuance of any Letters of Credit,  regardless of any investigation  made by
any  such  other   party  or  on  its  behalf  and   notwithstanding   that  the
Administrative  Agent,  the  Issuing  Banks or any Lender may have had notice or
knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any
credit is  extended  hereunder,  and shall  continue in full force and effect as
long as the  principal of or any accrued  interest on any Loan or any fee or any
other  amount  payable  under this  Agreement is  outstanding  and unpaid or any
Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments  have not expired
or terminated.  The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and Article
VIII  shall  survive  and  remain in full  force and  effect  regardless  of the
consummation  of the  transactions  contemplated  hereby,  the  repayment of the
Loans,  the  expiration  or  termination  of  the  Letters  of  Credit  and  the
Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.

     Section 9.06 Counterparts;  Integration;  Effectiveness. This Agreement may
be  executed in  counterparts  (and by  different  parties  hereto on  different
counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when
taken  together  shall  constitute a single  contract.  This  Agreement  and any
separate letter  agreements  with respect to fees payable to the  Administrative
Agent  constitute the entire contract among the parties  relating to the subject
matter hereof and supersede any and all previous  agreements and understandings,
oral or written,  relating to the subject matter  hereof.  Except as provided in
Section 4.01,  this  Agreement  shall become  effective  when it shall have been
executed by the  Administrative  Agent and when the  Administrative  Agent shall
have  received  counterparts  hereof  which,  when  taken  together,   bear  the
signatures of each of the other parties hereto,  and thereafter shall be binding
upon and  inure to the  benefit  of the  parties  hereto  and  their  respective
successors and assigns.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page
of this  Agreement  by  telecopy  shall be  effective  as delivery of a manually
executed counterpart of this Agreement.

     Section  9.07  Severability.  Any  provision of this  Agreement  held to be
invalid,  illegal  or  unenforceable  in  any  jurisdiction  shall,  as to  such
jurisdiction,  be  ineffective to the extent of such  invalidity,  illegality or

                                       58


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


unenforceability without affecting the validity,  legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in
a  particular  jurisdiction  shall not  invalidate  such  provision in any other
jurisdiction.

     Section 9.08    Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.

     (a) THIS  AGREEMENT  AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED  BY, AND  CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT UNITED
STATES FEDERAL LAW PERMITS ANY LENDER TO CONTRACT FOR, CHARGE, RECEIVE,  RESERVE
OR TAKE  INTEREST AT THE RATE ALLOWED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE WHERE SUCH LENDER
IS LOCATED.  CHAPTER 346 OF THE TEXAS  FINANCE  CODE  (WHICH  REGULATES  CERTAIN
REVOLVING CREDIT LOAN ACCOUNTS AND REVOLVING TRI-PARTY ACCOUNTS) SHALL NOT APPLY
TO THIS AGREEMENT.

     (b) ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO THE LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL
BE  BROUGHT  IN THE  COURTS  OF THE  STATE OF TEXAS OR OF THE  UNITED  STATES OF
AMERICA FOR THE SOUTHERN  DISTRICT OF TEXAS,  AND, BY EXECUTION  AND DELIVERY OF
THIS  AGREEMENT,  EACH  PARTY  HEREBY  ACCEPTS  FOR  ITSELF  AND (TO THE  EXTENT
PERMITTED BY LAW) IN RESPECT OF ITS PROPERTY, GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY, THE
JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS.  EACH PARTY HEREBY  IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY
OBJECTION,  INCLUDING,  WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE
OR BASED ON THE GROUNDS OF FORUM NON  CONVENIENS,  WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER
HAVE TO THE  BRINGING  OF ANY  SUCH  ACTION  OR  PROCEEDING  IN SUCH  RESPECTIVE
JURISDICTIONS.  THIS SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION  IS  NON-EXCLUSIVE  AND DOES NOT
PRECLUDE A PARTY FROM  OBTAINING  JURISDICTION  OVER ANOTHER  PARTY IN ANY COURT
OTHERWISE HAVING JURISDICTION.

     (c) EACH PARTY IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO THE SERVICE OF PROCESS OF ANY OF THE
AFOREMENTIONED  COURTS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING BY THE MAILING OF COPIES
THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL,  POSTAGE PREPAID,  TO IT AT THE ADDRESS
SPECIFIED  IN Section  9.01 OR SUCH OTHER  ADDRESS AS IS  SPECIFIED  PURSUANT TO
Section  9.01  (OR ITS  ASSIGNMENT  AND  ASSUMPTION),  SUCH  SERVICE  TO  BECOME
EFFECTIVE  THIRTY (30) DAYS AFTER SUCH MAILING.  NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE
RIGHT OF A PARTY OR ANY HOLDER OF A NOTE TO SERVE  PROCESS  IN ANY OTHER  MANNER
PERMITTED BY LAW OR TO COMMENCE LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS OR OTHERWISE  PROCEED AGAINST
ANOTHER PARTY IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.

     Section 9.09 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  EACH PARTY HEREBY (i)  IRREVOCABLY  AND
UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, TRIAL BY JURY IN
ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING  RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER DOCUMENT
RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT AND FOR ANY  COUNTERCLAIM  THEREIN;  (ii)  IRREVOCABLY
WAIVES,  TO THE MAXIMUM  EXTENT NOT  PROHIBITED BY LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO

                                       59


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


CLAIM OR RECOVER IN ANY SUCH  LITIGATION  ANY  SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY,  PUNITIVE OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR DAMAGES OTHER THAN, OR IN ADDITION TO, ACTUAL DAMAGES;
(iii) CERTIFIES THAT NO PARTY HERETO NOR ANY  REPRESENTATIVE OR AGENT OR COUNSEL
FOR ANY PARTY HERETO HAS  REPRESENTED,  EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE,  OR IMPLIED THAT
SUCH PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION,  SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING
WAIVERS,  AND (iv)  ACKNOWLEDGES  THAT IT HAS BEEN  INDUCED  TO ENTER  INTO THIS
AGREEMENT,  THE LOAN  DOCUMENTS  AND THE  TRANSACTIONS  CONTEMPLATED  HEREBY AND
THEREBY BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS  CONTAINED
IN THIS Section 9.09.

     Section  9.10  Headings.  Article  and  Section  headings  and the Table of
Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this
Agreement  and  shall  not  affect  the   construction  of,  or  be  taken  into
consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.

     Section 9.11 Confidentiality. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing
Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the  confidentiality of the Information
(as defined below),  except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its
Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants and
legal counsel (it being  understood  that the Persons to whom such disclosure is
made  will be  informed  of the  confidential  nature  of such  Information  and
instructed to keep such Information  confidential),  (b) to the extent requested
by any  regulatory  authority  or any  self-regulatory  body  claiming  to  have
authority,  (c) to the extent  required by applicable  laws or regulations or by
any subpoena or similar legal  process or  authority,  (d) to any other party to
this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or
any suit, action or proceeding  relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of
rights   hereunder,   (f)  subject  to  an   agreement   containing   provisions
substantially  the same as  those of this  Section,  to (i) any  assignee  of or
Participant  in, or any  prospective  assignee of or Participant  in, any of its
rights or  obligations  under this  Agreement,  (ii) any  actual or  prospective
counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to
the  Borrower  and its  obligations,  or (iii) to its  advisors  (other than its
accountants and legal  counsel),  (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to
the extent such Information becomes publicly available other than as a result of
a breach of this Section. For the purposes of this Section,  "Information" means
all  information  received  from the  Borrower  relating to the  Borrower or its
business,   other  than  any  such   information   that  is   available  to  the
Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis
prior to  disclosure  by the Borrower.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein to the
contrary,  any party to this Agreement (and any employees,  representatives  and
other  agents  of such  party)  may  disclose  to any and all  persons,  without
limitation of any kind (a) any information  with respect to the U.S. federal and
state income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated herein and any facts
that may be relevant to understanding such tax treatment,  which facts shall not
include  for this  purpose the names of the  parties or any other  person  named
herein,  or information that would permit  identification of the parties or such
other  persons,  or any pricing terms or other  nonpublic  business or financial
information  that is  unrelated  to such tax  treatment  or  facts,  and (b) all
materials of any kind  (including  opinions or other tax  analyses)  relating to
such tax treatment or facts that are provided to any of the persons  referred to
above.

                                       60


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     Section 9.12 Interest Rate  Limitation.  It is the intention of the parties
hereto that each Lender shall conform  strictly to usury laws  applicable to it.
Accordingly, if the transactions contemplated hereby would be usurious as to any
Lender under laws  applicable to it (including  the laws of the United States of
America  and the  State of Texas or any  other  jurisdiction  whose  laws may be
mandatorily  applicable to such Lender  notwithstanding  the other provisions of
this Agreement),  then, in that event,  notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Agreement or the Subsidiary Guaranties,  it is agreed as follows: (i) the
aggregate of all consideration  which constitutes  interest under law applicable
to any Lender that is contracted  for, taken,  reserved,  charged or received by
such Lender under the  Agreement  or the  Subsidiary  Guaranties  shall under no
circumstances  exceed the maximum amount allowed by such applicable law, and any
excess shall be canceled automatically and if theretofore paid shall be credited
by such Lender on the principal  amount of the  Indebtedness  (or, to the extent
that the principal amount of the  Indebtedness  shall have been or would thereby
be paid in full, refunded by such Lender to the Borrower); and (ii) in the event
of  any  required  or  permitted   prepayment,   then  such  consideration  that
constitutes  interest  under law applicable to any Lender may never include more
than the maximum amount allowed by such applicable law, and excess interest,  if
any, provided for in this Agreement or otherwise shall be canceled automatically
by such  Lender  as of the  date of such  acceleration  or  prepayment  and,  if
theretofore  paid,  shall be credited by such Lender on the principal  amount of
the  Indebtedness   (or,  to  the  extent  that  the  principal  amount  of  the
Indebtedness shall have been or would thereby be paid in full,  refunded by such
Lender to the  Borrower).  All sums paid or agreed to be paid to any  Lender for
the use,  forbearance  or detention of sums due hereunder  shall,  to the extent
permitted by law applicable to such Lender,  be amortized,  prorated,  allocated
and spread throughout the stated term of the Loans until payment in full so that
the rate or amount of interest on account of any Loans hereunder does not exceed
the maximum amount allowed by such  applicable law. If at any time and from time
to time (i) the  amount of  interest  payable to any Lender on any date shall be
computed at the Highest Lawful Rate  applicable to such Lender  pursuant to this
Section 9.12 and (ii) in respect of any subsequent  interest  computation period
the amount of interest  otherwise  payable to such Lender would be less than the
amount of interest  payable to such Lender  computed at the Highest  Lawful Rate
applicable to such Lender, then the amount of interest payable to such Lender in
respect of such  subsequent  interest  computation  period shall  continue to be
computed at the Highest  Lawful Rate  applicable  to such Lender until the total
amount of  interest  payable  to such  Lender  shall  equal the total  amount of
interest  which would have been  payable to such  Lender if the total  amount of
interest had been  computed  without  giving effect to this Section 9.12. To the
extent that Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code is relevant for the purpose of
determining the Highest Lawful Rate  applicable to a Lender,  such Lender elects
to  determine  the  applicable  rate  ceiling  under such  Chapter by the weekly
ceiling from time to time in effect.  Chapter 346 of the Texas Finance Code does
not apply to the Borrower's obligations hereunder.

     Section  9.13 USA Patriot  Act Notice.  Each  Lender  hereby  notifies  the
Borrower that pursuant to the  requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of
Pub. L. 107-56  (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"),  it is required
to obtain,  verify and record  information  that identifies the Borrower,  which
information  includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information
that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.

                                       61


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                        [SIGNATURE PAGES BEGIN NEXT PAGE]




                                       62



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have caused this  Agreement to be
duly  executed by their  respective  authorized  officers as of the day and year
first above written.

Borrower:                              PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES
                                       COMPANY



                                       By:
                                           -----------------------------
                                           Timothy L. Dove
                                           Executive Vice President and
                                           Chief Financial Officer





                                Signature Page 1


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003

      Administrative Agent & Lender:              JPMORGAN CHASE BANK



                                                  By:
                                                      -------------------------
                                                  Name:  Robert C. Mertensotto
                                                  Title: Managing Director



                                Signature Page 2


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Co-Arranger:                                     J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.




                                                 By:
                                                      -------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                       ------------------------
                                                 Title:
                                                       ------------------------


                                Signature Page 3


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003




Co-Arranger:                                  WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC




                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                               Name:  David Humphreys
                                               Title: Vice President




                                Signature Page 4




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Syndication Agent & Lender:                     WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL
                                                ASSOCIATION



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                Name:  David Humphreys
                                                Title: Vice President



                                Signature Page 5



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Documentation Agent & Lender:                   BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.



                                                By:
                                                    --------------------------
                                                    Name:  Ronald E. McKaig
                                                    Title: Managing Director



                                Signature Page 6



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Documentation Agent & Lender:              BANK ONE, N.A. (MAIN OFFICE CHICAGO)




                                           By:
                                               -------------------------------
                                               Name:  J. Scott Fowler
                                               Title: Director, Capital Markets



                                Signature Page 7



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



Documentation Agent & Lender:               FLEET NATIONAL BANK



                                            By:
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:  Jeffrey H. Rathkamp
                                                Title: Director




                                Signature Page 8




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Documentation Agent & Lender:                      WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL
                                                   ASSOCIATION



                                                   By:
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      Name:  David C. Brooks
                                                      Title: Vice President



                                Signature Page 9



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


Lenders:                                           ABN AMRO



                                                   By:
                                                       ------------------------
                                                       Name:  Frank Russo
                                                       Title: Vice President



                                                   By:
                                                       ------------------------
                                                       Name:  John Reed
                                                       Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 10



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                                   CITIBANK, N.A.




                                                   By:
                                                       ------------------------
                                                       Name:  Joronne Jeter
                                                       Title: Attorney-In-Fact



                               Signature Page 11




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                   CREDIT AGRICOLE INDOSUEZ



                                   By:
                                       -------------------------
                                       Name:  Thomas P. Gillis
                                       Title: Senior Vice President
                                              Head of Banking Division
                                              General, Manager, Chicago Branch


                                   By:
                                       -------------------------
                                       Name: Gerard M. Russell
                                       Title: Vice President, Manager


                               Signature Page 12




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                        CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON
                                        acting through its Cayman Islands Branch




                                        By:
                                            -----------------------------------
                                            Name:  James P. Moran
                                            Title: Director


                                        By:
                                            -----------------------------------
                                            Name:  Denise L. Alvarez
                                            Title: Associate




                               Signature Page 13





<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                            DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH



                                            By:
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:  Joel Makowsky
                                                Title: Director



                                            By:
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:  Oliver Riedinger
                                                Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 14



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                                THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  William E. Zarrett
                                                    Title: Managing Director



                                                SCOTIABANC INC.



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  William E. Zarrett
                                                    Title: Managing Director



                               Signature Page 15



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                 SUNTRUST BANK



                                                 By:
                                                     --------------------------
                                                     Name:  James M. Warren
                                                     Title: Director




                               Signature Page 16





<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                                 UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.




                                                 By:
                                                      -------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                       ------------------------
                                                 Title:
                                                       ------------------------



                               Signature Page 17





<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                 BARCLAYS BANK PLC



                                                 By:
                                                     --------------------------
                                                     Name:  Nicholas A. Bell
                                                     Title: Director



                               Signature Page 18




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                                BNP PARIBAS



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  David Dodd
                                                    Title: Director



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Betsy Jocher
                                                    Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 19




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                               THE BANK OF NEW YORK



                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Name:  Craig J. Anderson
                                                   Title: Vice President




                               Signature Page 20





<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                                Den norske Bank ASA



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Peter M. Dodge
                                                    Title: First Vice President


                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Nils Fykse
                                                    Title: Senior Vice President



                               Signature Page 21




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Akihiko Mabuchi
                                                    Title: Senior Vice President



                               Signature Page 22




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Mark E. Thompson
                                                    Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 23




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                WASHINGTON MUTUAL BANK, F.A.



                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  Mark Isensee
                                                    Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 24




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                                AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
                                                BANKING GROUP LIMITED


                                                By:
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                    Name:  R. Scott McInnis
                                                    Title: Country Head - USA



                               Signature Page 25




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                               BMO NESBITT BURNS FINANCING, INC.



                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Name:  James V. Ducote
                                                   Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 26




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                               KBC BANK N.V.



                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Name:  Robert Snauffer
                                                   Title: First Vice President



                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Name:  William Cavanaugh
                                                   Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 27




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                               TORONTO DOMINION (TEXAS), INC.



                                               By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Name:  Mark A. Baird
                                                   Title: Vice President



                               Signature Page 28




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                              UFJ BANK LIMITED



                                              By:
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                  Name:  Clyde L. Redford
                                                  Title: Senior Vice President



                               Signature Page 29




<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                  SCHEDULE 1.01

                           EXISTING LETTERS OF CREDIT


1.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Acstar Insurance Company
         Amount:                      $150,000
         Date of Issue:          9/15/94
         Expiration:             9/15/04

2.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Chevron USA Inc
         Amount:                      $7,000,000
         Date of Issue:          6/17/98
         Expiration:             6/1/04

3.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Chevron USA Inc
         Amount:                      $7,000,000
         Date of Issue:          6/17/98
         Expiration:             6/1/04

4.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company of  New York
         Amount:                      $13,852,000
         Date of Issue:          5/30/00
         Expiration:             5/30/04

5.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Citibank, N.A. Gabon BP
         Amount:                      $150,000
         Date of Issue:          5/02/2002
         Expiration:             12/31/2004

6.       Issuing Bank:           Bank of America
         Beneficiary:            Alliance Canadian Marketing LP
         Amount:                      $655,000
         Date of Issue:          1/13/2003
         Expiration:             12/31/2003




                                 Schedule 1.01


<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                  SCHEDULE 2.01
                                   COMMITMENTS
<TABLE>


<CAPTION>

                    Lender                          Amount of Commitment     Percentage of Total
                                                                                 Commitments
- -----------------------------------------------     --------------------     -------------------

<S>                                                     <C>                         <C>
JPMorgan Chase Bank                                     $42,500,000                 6.075%
Wachovia Bank, National Association                     $42,500,000                 6.075%
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association                  $40,000,000                 5.715%
Bank of America, N.A.                                   $40,000,000                 5.715%
Bank One, N.A. (Main Office Chicago)                    $40,000,000                 5.715%
Fleet National Bank                                     $40,000,000                 5.715%
ABN Amro                                                $30,000,000                 4.285%
Citibank, N.A.                                          $30,000,000                 4.285%
Credit Agricole Indosuez                                $30,000,000                 4.285%
Credit Suisse First Boston, acting through              $30,000,000                 4.285%
  its Cayman Islands Branch
Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch                        $30,000,000                 4.285%
The Bank of Nova Scotia                                 $15,000,000                 2.145%
Scotiabank Inc.                                         $15,000,000                 2.145%
Suntrust Bank                                           $30,000,000                 4.285%
Union Bank of California, N.A.                          $30,000,000                 4.285%
Barclays Bank PLC                                       $20,000,000                 2.855%
BNP Paribas                                             $20,000,000                 2.855%
The Bank of New York                                    $20,000,000                 2.855%
Den norske Bank ASA                                     $20,000,000                 2.855%
Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.                             $20,000,000                 2.855%
U.S. Bank National Association                          $20,000,000                 2.855%
Washington Mutual Bank, F.A.                            $20,000,000                 2.855%
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited         $15,000,000                 2.145%
BMO Nesbitt Burns Financing, Inc.                       $15,000,000                 2.145%
KBC Bank N.V.                                           $15,000,000                 2.145%
Toronto Dominion (Texas), Inc.                          $15,000,000                 2.145%
UFJ Bank Limited                                        $15,000,000                 2.145%

                                            Total:     $700,000,000                100.00%
</TABLE>



                                 Schedule 2.01



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                  SCHEDULE 2.13

                         SWINGLINE LOAN RATE CALCULATION

The rate of  interest  for a  Swingline  Loan  shall be (a) the  "ASK"  rate for
Federal  Funds  appearing on Page 5 of the Dow Jones  Market  Service (or on any
successor or substitute page of such Service,  or any successor to or substitute
for such  Service,  providing  rate  quotations  comparable  to those  currently
provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent
from time to time for  purposes  of  providing  quotations  of the  offer  rates
applicable to Federal Funds for a term of one Business Day) at the time reviewed
by the  Administrative  Agent plus (b) the Applicable  Margin for the Eurodollar
Spread.  In the event that part (a) of such rate is not  available  at such time
for any  reason,  then part (a) of such rate will be the rate  agreed to between
the Administrative  Agent and the Borrower.  The Borrower understands and agrees
that the rate quoted from Page 5 of the Dow Jones Market  Service is a real-time
rate that changes from time to time. The rate quoted by the Administrative Agent
and used for the purpose of setting the interest rate for a Swingline  Loan will
be the rate on the screen of the Administrative Agent at the time of setting the
rate and will not be an average or composite of rates for that day.




                                 Schedule 2.13



<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003


                                  SCHEDULE 3.06
                                DISCLOSED MATTERS




John Stephen Alford and Robert Larrabee, individually and on behalf of Plaintiff
Class v. Mesa Inc., Hugoton Capital Limited Partnership,  Mesa Operating Limited
Partnership,  No. 93 CV 37;  26th  District  Court of Stevens  County,  KS Civil
Department.

United States of America,  Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission,  Southern Star
Central Gas Pipeline, Inc. Docket Nos. RP98-52-051, et al. and Panhandle Eastern
Pipe Line Company, et al. Docket No. RP98-40 et al.




                                 Schedule 3.06






<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                  SCHEDULE 6.02
                                      LIENS


                                      NONE





                                 Schedule 6.02





<PAGE>

                                                               December 16, 2003



                                  SCHEDULE 6.08
                         EXISTING RESTRICTIVE AGREEMENTS



                                      NONE




                                 Schedule 6.08



<PAGE>





                                    EXHIBIT A

                                     FORM OF

                            ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION


     This Assignment and Assumption (the  "Assignment and  Assumption") is dated
as of the  Effective  Date set forth  below and is entered  into by and  between
[Insert name of Assignor]  (the  "Assignor")  and [Insert name of Assignee] (the
"Assignee").  Capitalized  terms  used but not  defined  herein  shall  have the
meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the
"Credit  Agreement"),  receipt of a copy of which is hereby  acknowledged by the
Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto
are hereby  agreed to and  incorporated  herein by reference  and made a part of
this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.

     For an agreed  consideration,  the Assignor  hereby  irrevocably  sells and
assigns to the  Assignee,  and the Assignee  hereby  irrevocably  purchases  and
assumes from the Assignor,  subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms
and  Conditions and the Credit  Agreement,  as of the Effective Date inserted by
the Administrative  Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights
and  obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit  Agreement and any
other documents or instruments  delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related
to  the  amount  and  percentage  interest  identified  below  of  all  of  such
outstanding  rights  and  obligations  of  the  Assignor  under  the  respective
facilities  identified below (including any letters of credit,  guarantees,  and
swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to
be assigned under  applicable law, all claims,  suits,  causes of action and any
other right of the Assignor  (in its  capacity as a Lender)  against any Person,
whether  known or  unknown,  arising  under  or in  connection  with the  Credit
Agreement,  any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the
loan  transactions  governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of
the foregoing,  including  contract  claims,  tort claims,  malpractice  claims,
statutory  claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights
and obligations  sold and assigned  pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and
obligations  sold and  assigned  pursuant  to clauses  (i) and (ii) above  being
referred  to herein  collectively  as the  "Assigned  Interest").  Such sale and
assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided
in this Assignment and  Assumption,  without  representation  or warranty by the
Assignor.

1.   Assignor:               ______________________________

2.   Assignee:               ______________________________
                             [and is an Affiliate/Approved Fund of [identify
                             Lender]1]

3.   Borrower(s):            ______________________________

4.   Administrative Agent:   ______________________, as the administrative agent
                             under the Credit Agreement

__________________

1  Select as applicable.



                                  EXHIBIT A-1


<PAGE>



5.   Credit Agreement:       [The  $700,000,000  Credit  Agreement  dated  as of
                             _______________  among [name  of Borrower(s)],  the
                             Lenders parties thereto,  JPMorgan Chase  Bank,  as
                             Administrative Agent,  and the other agents parties
                             thereto]





                                  EXHIBIT A-2



<PAGE>



6. Assigned Interest:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ---------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ----------------------
Facility Assigned 2      Aggregate Amount of      Amount of      Percentage Assigned of
                       Commitment/Loans for   Commitment/Loans     Commitment/Loans 3
                             all Lenders           Assigned
- ---------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ----------------------
<S>                    <C>                    <C>                <C>
                       $                      $                                   %
- ---------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ----------------------
                       $                      $                                   %
- ---------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ----------------------
                       $                      $                                   %
- ---------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ----------------------
</TABLE>

Effective Date: _____________ ___, 20___ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER
THEREFOR.]

The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:

                                             ASSIGNOR

                                             [NAME OF ASSIGNOR]


                                             By:
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                        Title:


                                             ASSIGNEE

                                             [NAME OF ASSIGNEE]


                                             By:
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                        Title:

_________________
2 Fill in the  appropriate  terminology  for the types of  facilities  under the
Credit Agreement that are being assigned under this Assignment (e.g., "Revolving
Commitment," "Tranche A. Commitment," "Tranche B Commitment," etc.)
3 Set forth, to at least 9 decimals,  as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of
all Lenders thereunder.


                                  EXHIBIT A-3



<PAGE>


Consented to and Accepted:

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as
  Administrative Agent


By
   --------------------------------
  Title:


Consented to:

[NAME OF RELEVANT PARTY]


By
   --------------------------------
  Title:



                                  EXHIBIT A-4


<PAGE>


                                                                        ANNEX 1

                             [__________________]4

                        STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
                            ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION

     1. Representations and Warranties.

     1.1 Assignor.  The Assignor (a)  represents and warrants that (i) it is the
legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest,  (ii) the Assigned Interest
is free and clear of any lien,  encumbrance  or other adverse claim and (iii) it
has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and
deliver this  Assignment  and  Assumption  and to  consummate  the  transactions
contemplated  hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility  with respect to (i) any
statements,  warranties or  representations  made in or in  connection  with the
Credit  Agreement  or any other Loan  Document,  (ii) the  execution,  legality,
validity,  enforceability,   genuineness,  sufficiency  or  value  of  the  Loan
Documents or any  collateral  thereunder,  (iii) the financial  condition of the
Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in
respect  of any Loan  Document  or (iv) the  performance  or  observance  by the
Borrower,  any of its  Subsidiaries  or Affiliates or any other Person of any of
their respective obligations under any Loan Document.

     1.2.  Assignee.  The Assignee (a)  represents  and warrants that (i) it has
full power and  authority,  and has taken all action  necessary,  to execute and
deliver this  Assignment  and  Assumption  and to  consummate  the  transactions
contemplated  hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement,  (ii) it
satisfies the requirements,  if any,  specified in the Credit Agreement that are
required to be  satisfied  by it in order to acquire the  Assigned  Interest and
become a Lender,  (iii) from and after the Effective  Date, it shall be bound by
the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent
of the Assigned  Interest,  shall have the  obligations of a Lender  thereunder,
(iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the
most recent financial  statements  delivered pursuant to Section ___ thereof, as
applicable,   and  such  other  documents  and  information  as  it  has  deemed
appropriate  to make its own credit  analysis  and  decision  to enter into this
Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned  Interest on the basis of
which it has made such analysis and decision  independently and without reliance
on the  Administrative  Agent or any  other  Lender,  and (v) if it is a Foreign
Lender5, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required
to be  delivered  by it  pursuant  to the terms of the  Credit  Agreement,  duly
completed  and  executed  by the  Assignee;  and (b)  agrees  that  (i) it will,
independently and without reliance on the Administrative  Agent, the Assignor or
any other Lender,  and based on such documents and  information as it shall deem
appropriate at the time,  continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or
not  taking  action  under  the  Loan  Documents,  and (ii) it will  perform  in
accordance  with their  terms all of the  obligations  which by the terms of the
Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.

     2. Payments.  From and after the Effective Date, the  Administrative  Agent
shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest  (including payments
of  principal,  interest,  fees and other  amounts) to the  Assignor for amounts
which have accrued to but excluding  the Effective  Date and to the Assignee for
amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.

______________
4 Describe Credit Agreement at option of Administrative Agent.
5 The  concept of  "Foreign  Lender"  should be  conformed to the section in the
Credit Agreement governng withholding taxes and gross-up.



                                  EXHIBIT A-5


<PAGE>



     3. General  Provisions.  This  Assignment and  Assumption  shall be binding
upon,  and inure to the  benefit  of, the  parties  hereto and their  respective
successors  and assigns.  This  Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any
number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery
of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption
by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of
this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed
by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of Texas.



                                  EXHIBIT A-6


<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT B

                                     FORM OF

                          NOTICE OF COMMITMENT INCREASE

                                     [Date]



JPMorgan Chase Bank,
[                  ]
Attention:  __________________

Ladies and Gentlemen:

     The undersigned,  Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("PNRC"), refers to the
5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of  _____________,  2003 (as amended,
supplemented  or otherwise  modified from time to time, the "Credit  Agreement",
with terms  defined in the Credit  Agreement and not  otherwise  defined  herein
being used herein as therein  defined)  among PNRC,  as  borrower,  and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, as Administrative  Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. PNRC hereby
notifies you, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement, that PNRC hereby
requests that the aggregate amount of the Commitments under the Credit Agreement
be increased  and the CI Lenders agree to provide  Commitments  under the Credit
Agreement,  and in that connection sets forth below the information  relating to
such proposed  Commitment  Increase as required by Section 2.02(b) of the Credit
Agreement:

     (a) the effective date of such increase of aggregate amount of the Lenders'
Commitments is _______________;

     (b)  the  amount  of  the  requested   increase  of  the   Commitments   is
$__________________;

     (c) the CI Lenders that have agreed with PNRC to provide  their  respective
Commitments, are _____________________________ [INSERT NAMES OF THE CI LENDERS];
and

     (d) set forth on Annex I attached  hereto is the  amount of the  respective
Commitments  of  all  Reducing  Percentage  Lenders  and  all CI  Lenders  as of
effective date of such Commitment Increase.

     Delivery of an executed  counterpart of this Notice of Commitment  Increase
by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart
of this Notice of Commitment Increase.



                                  EXHIBIT B-1


<PAGE>


                                             Very truly yours,


                                             PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                                             By:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                             Name:
                                                   ----------------------------
                                             Title:
                                                   ----------------------------
Approved and Consented to by:

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK,
administrative agent



By:
      ------------------------------------------
Name:
      ------------------------------------------
Title:
      ------------------------------------------


                                  EXHIBIT B-2



<PAGE>


                                     ANNEX I

                                       TO

                          NOTICE OF COMMITMENT INCREASE

                             (as of _________, 2003)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


           Lender                        Amount of         Percentage of Total
                                         Commitment            Commitments
- ---------------------------------     ----------------     -------------------

<S>                                   <C>                  <C>
JPMorgan Chase Bank









                          Total:      [700,000,000.00]         100.0000000%

</TABLE>



                                  EXHIBIT B-3


<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT C

                                     FORM OF

                          OPINION OF BORROWER'S COUNSEL








                                   EXHIBIT C



<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT D

                                     FORM OF

                               SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY

     This  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTY is dated as of [ ], 2003 made by [ ], a [ ] (the
"Subsidiary  Guarantor"),  in favor of JPMorgan  Chase Bank,  as  administrative
agent (in such  capacity,  together with its  successors in such  capacity,  the
"Administrative  Agent"),  for the banks and other financial  institutions  (the
"Lenders") from time to time parties to the 5-Year  Revolving  Credit  Agreement
dated as of December 16, 2003 (as amended,  supplemented  or otherwise  modified
from time to time,  the "Credit  Agreement"),  among Pioneer  Natural  Resources
Company (the  "Borrower"),  the  Administrative  Agent,  the Issuing Banks,  the
Lenders party  thereto,  Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association,  as Syndication
Agent,  Bank of America,  N.A., Bank One, N.A., Fleet National Bank, Wells Fargo
Bank,  National  Association,   as  Co-Documentation  Agents,  and  J.P.  Morgan
Securities Inc. and Wachovia  Capital  Markets,  LLC, as Co-Arrangers  and Joint
Bookrunners.

                                 R E C I T A L S

     A._______The  Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide certain loans
to and extensions of credit on behalf of the Borrower.

     B._______The  Lenders  have  agreed to make such  loans and  extensions  of
credit subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement.

     C._______It  is a condition  precedent to the  obligation of the Lenders to
make their  respective  extensions  of credit to the  Borrower  under the Credit
Agreement (or an ongoing  covenant of the Borrower  under the Credit  Agreement)
that the Subsidiary  Guarantor shall have executed and delivered this Subsidiary
Guaranty to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders.

     D. NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration of the premises herein and to induce
the Administrative  Agent and the Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and
to induce  the  Lenders  to make their  respective  extensions  of credit to the
Borrower   thereunder,   the  Subsidiary   Guarantor   hereby  agrees  with  the
Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, as follows:

     Section 1. Definitions.  Unless otherwise defined herein,  terms defined in
the Credit  Agreement  and used  herein have the  meanings  given to them in the
Credit Agreement. The following terms have the following meanings:

     "Liabilities" means the collective reference to the payment and performance
when due of all indebtedness,  liabilities,  obligations and undertakings of the
Borrower  (including,  without  limitation,  all  Indebtedness) of every kind or
description arising out of or outstanding under, advanced or issued pursuant to,
or evidenced by, the Loan Documents,  including,  without limitation, the unpaid
principal  of and  interest  on the  Loans  and the LC  Exposure  and all  other
obligations  and  liabilities of the Borrower  (including,  without  limitation,
interest  accruing at the then applicable rate provided in the Credit  Agreement


                                  EXHIBIT D-1


<PAGE>



after the maturity of the Loans and LC Exposure and interest  accruing after the
filing of any petition in bankruptcy,  or the  commencement  of any  insolvency,
reorganization  or like proceeding,  relating to the Borrower,  whether or not a
claim for post-filing or  post-petition  interest is allowed in such proceeding)
to the Guaranteed Creditors, whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent,
due or to become due,  now  existing or  hereafter  incurred,  arising out of or
outstanding  under,  advanced  or issued  pursuant,  or  evidenced  by, the Loan
Documents,  whether on account of principal,  interest,  premium,  reimbursement
obligations,   payments  in  respect  of  an  early   termination   date,  fees,
indemnities,  costs, expenses or otherwise (including,  without limitation,  all
costs,  fees and  disbursements of counsel to the Guaranteed  Creditors that are
required  to be  paid  by the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  any  Loan
Documents).

     "Guaranteed Creditors" means the collective reference to the Administrative
Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders.

     Section 2. Rules of  Interpretation.  Section  1.03 and Section 1.04 of the
Credit Agreement are hereby  incorporated herein by reference and shall apply to
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.

     Section 3. Guaranty of Payments.  The Subsidiary Guarantor  unconditionally
and irrevocably  guarantees to the Guaranteed  Creditors the punctual payment of
the Liabilities, when the same are due and payable, whether on demand, at stated
maturity,  by  acceleration or otherwise,  and whether for principal,  interest,
fees,  expenses,   indemnification  or  otherwise;  provided  that  the  maximum
liability of the Subsidiary  Guarantor  shall not exceed the amount which can be
guaranteed by the Subsidiary  Guarantor under applicable  federal and state laws
relating  to the  insolvency  of  debtors;  provided,  further,  however,  it is
understood that the obligations of the Borrower to the Guaranteed  Creditors may
at any  time  and from  time to time  exceed  the  liability  of the  Subsidiary
Guarantor   hereunder  without  impairing  this  Subsidiary   Guaranty  and  the
Subsidiary  Guarantor and the Guaranteed Creditors agree, as between themselves,
that regardless of the manner of application of payments made by the Borrower to
the Guaranteed Creditors,  all such payments shall be deemed to be applied first
to the portion of the  obligations of the Borrower to the  Guaranteed  Creditors
which are not guaranteed  hereunder and last to the portion of such  obligations
which are  guaranteed  hereunder.  This  Subsidiary  Guaranty  is a guaranty  of
payment  and not of  collection  only.  The  Guaranteed  Creditors  shall not be
required to exhaust any right or remedy or take any action  against the Borrower
or any other person or entity or any collateral. The Subsidiary Guarantor agrees
that, as between the  Subsidiary  Guarantor and the  Guaranteed  Creditors,  the
Liabilities  may be  declared  to be due and  payable  for the  purposes of this
Subsidiary Guaranty  notwithstanding  any stay,  injunction or other prohibition
which may prevent,  delay or vitiate any declaration as regards the Borrower and
that in the event of a declaration  or attempted  declaration,  the  Liabilities
shall  immediately  become due and payable by the  Subsidiary  Guarantor for the
purposes  of this  Subsidiary  Guaranty.  No payment  made by any Obligor or any
other  Person or received or  collected  by the  Guaranteed  Creditors  from any
Obligor or any other Person by virtue of any action or proceeding or any set-off
or appropriation or application at any time or from time to time in reduction of
or in payment of the Liabilities shall be deemed to modify,  reduce,  release or
otherwise  affect the  liability of any  Subsidiary  Guarantor  hereunder  which
shall,  notwithstanding  any such  payment  (other than any payment made by such


                                  EXHIBIT D-2



<PAGE>


Subsidiary  Guarantor in respect of the  Liabilities or any payment  received or
collected from such Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the Liabilities),  remain
liable  for the  Liabilities  up to the  maximum  liability  of such  Subsidiary
Guarantor hereunder until the Liabilities are paid in full in cash, no Letter of
Credit shall be outstanding and all of the Commitments are terminated.

     Section 4. Guaranty Absolute and  Unconditional.  The Subsidiary  Guarantor
guarantees  that the  Liabilities  shall be paid strictly in accordance with the
terms of the Loan  Documents.  The liability of the Subsidiary  Guarantor  under
this Subsidiary Guaranty is absolute and unconditional  irrespective of: (a) any
change in the time,  manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all
or any of the Loan Documents or Liabilities, or any other amendment or waiver of
or any  consent  to  departure  from any of the  terms of any Loan  Document  or
Liabilities, including any increase or decrease in the rate of interest thereon;
(b) any release or  amendment or waiver of, or consent to  departure  from,  any
other guaranty or support document,  or any exchange,  release for all or any of
the Loan Documents or Liabilities;  (c) any present or future law, regulation or
order of any jurisdiction (whether of right or in fact) or of any agency thereof
purporting to reduce,  amend,  restructure  or otherwise  affect any term of any
Loan Document or  Liabilities;  (d) without being limited by the foregoing,  any
lack of validity or enforceability of any Loan Document or Liabilities;  (e) the
insolvency,  bankruptcy arrangement,  reorganization,  adjustment,  composition,
liquidation,  disability,  dissolution  or lack of power of the  Borrower  , any
Subsidiary  Guarantor  or any other Person at any time liable for the payment of
all or part of the  Liabilities,  including  any  discharge  of,  or bar or stay
against  collecting,  any Liability (or any part of them or interest therein) in
or as a result of such proceeding; (f) any sale, lease or transfer of any or all
of the assets of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary Guarantor,  or any changes
in the shareholders of the Borrower or the Subsidiary  Guarantor;  any change in
the corporate existence (including its constitution, laws, rules, regulations or
power), structure or ownership of any Obligor; (g) the absence of any attempt to
collect  the  Obligations  or any part of them from any  Obligor;  (h) any sale,
exchange,  waiver,  surrender or release of any  guarantee or right of offset at
any time held by the  Guaranteed  Creditors for the payment of the  Liabilities;
(i) the addition,  from time to time, of any guarantors,  makers or endorsers of
the Liabilities,  or of any additional security or collateral for the payment of
the Liabilities;  and (j) any other setoff, defense or counterclaim  whatsoever,
or any other  circumstance  or act whatsoever with respect to the Loan Documents
or the transactions  contemplated thereby which might constitute or be construed
to  constitute a legal or equitable  defense  available to, or discharge of, the
Borrower or a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Credit Agreement or this Subsidiary
Guaranty,  in bankruptcy or in any other instance (in any case, except a defense
of payment or performance, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory).
When making any demand hereunder or otherwise pursuing their rights and remedies
hereunder against any Subsidiary  Guarantor,  the Guaranteed  Creditors may, but
shall be under no obligation  to, join or make a similar  demand on or otherwise
pursue  or  exhaust  such  rights  and  remedies  as they may have  against  the
Borrower,  any other  Subsidiary  Guarantor  or any other  Person or against any
guarantee for the Liabilities or any right of offset with respect  thereto,  and
any failure by the Guaranteed  Creditors to make any such demand, to pursue such
other rights or remedies or to collect any payments from the Borrower, any other
Subsidiary  Guarantor or any other Person or to realize upon any such  guarantee
or to exercise  any such right of offset,  or any release of the  Borrower,  any
other Subsidiary Guarantor or any other Person or any such guarantee or right of
offset,  shall  not  relieve  any  Subsidiary  Guarantor  of any  obligation  or
liability  hereunder,  and shall not impair or affect  the rights and  remedies,
whether  express,  implied or  available  as a matter of law, of the  Guaranteed
Creditors  against any Subsidiary  Guarantor.  For the purposes  hereof "demand"
shall include the commencement and continuance of any legal proceedings.


                                  EXHIBIT D-3



<PAGE>



     Section 5. Guaranty  Irrevocable.  This Subsidiary Guaranty is a continuing
guaranty of all Liabilities  now or hereafter  existing under the Loan Documents
and  shall  remain  in  full  force  and  effect  until  payment  in full of all
Liabilities and other amounts  payable under this Subsidiary  Guaranty and until
the Loan Documents are no longer in effect.

     Section 6.  Reinstatement.  This  Subsidiary  Guaranty shall continue to be
effective, or be reinstated,  as the case may be, if at any time any payment, or
any part thereof,  of any of the  Liabilities  is rescinded or must otherwise be
returned by the Guaranteed Creditors on the insolvency, bankruptcy, dissolution,
liquidation or reorganization of the Borrower or any Subsidiary  Guarantor,  all
as though the payment had not been made.

     Section  7.  No  Subrogation.  Notwithstanding  any  payment  made  by  any
Subsidiary  Guarantor  hereunder or any set-off or  application  of funds of any
Subsidiary Guarantor by the Guaranteed Creditors,  no Subsidiary Guarantor shall
be entitled to be  subrogated to any of the rights of the  Guaranteed  Creditors
against  the  Borrower  or any  other  Subsidiary  Guarantor  or any  collateral
security or guarantee or right of offset held by any Guaranteed Creditor for the
payment  of the  Liabilities,  nor shall  any  Subsidiary  Guarantor  seek or be
entitled to seek any  indemnity,  exoneration,  participation,  contribution  or
reimbursement from the Borrower or any other Subsidiary  Guarantor in respect of
payments made by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, until all amounts owing to
the  Guaranteed  Creditors on account of the  Liabilities  are  irrevocably  and
indefeasibly  paid in full in cash, no Letter of Credit shall be outstanding and
all of the  Commitments  are  terminated.  If any  amount  shall  be paid to any
Subsidiary  Guarantor on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all
of the Liabilities shall not have been irrevocably and indefeasibly paid in full
in cash, any Letter of Credit shall be outstanding or any of the Commitments are
in effect,  such amount shall be held by such Subsidiary  Guarantor in trust for
the Guaranteed Creditors,  and shall,  forthwith upon receipt by such Subsidiary
Guarantor, be turned over to the Administrative Agent in the exact form received
by such Subsidiary  Guarantor (duly indorsed by such Subsidiary Guarantor to the
Administrative  Agent,  if  required),  to be applied  against the  Liabilities,
whether matured or unmatured, as determined by the Administrative Agent.

     Section 8. Subordination. Without limiting the Guaranteed Creditors' rights
under  any  other  agreement,  any  liabilities  owed  by  the  Borrower  to the
Subsidiary  Guarantor in  connection  with any  extension of credit or financial
accommodation by the Subsidiary Guarantor to or for the account of the Borrower,
including but not limited to interest accruing at the agreed contract rate after
the commencement of a bankruptcy or similar proceeding,  are hereby subordinated
to the Liabilities  upon the occurrence of an Event of Default,  and, in such an
event such  liabilities  of the  Borrower to the  Subsidiary  Guarantor,  if the
Administrative Agent so requests,  shall be collected,  enforced and received by
the Subsidiary  Guarantor as trustee for the  Guaranteed  Creditors and shall be
paid  over  to the  Administrative  Agent  for  the  benefit  of the  Guaranteed
Creditors on account of the Liabilities  (but only to the extent due and payable
but without  reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of the Subsidiary
Guarantor under the other provisions of this Subsidiary Guaranty.


                                  EXHIBIT D-4


<PAGE>



     Section 9. Payments  Generally.  All payments by the  Subsidiary  Guarantor
shall be made in the  manner,  at the place and in the  currency  (the  "Payment
Currency")  required  by the Loan  Documents;  provided,  however,  that (if the
Payment  Currency is other than U.S.  dollars) the Subsidiary  Guarantor may, at
its option (or, if for any reason whatsoever the Subsidiary  Guarantor is unable
to effect payments in the foregoing  manner,  the Subsidiary  Guarantor shall be
obligated to) pay to the  Administrative  Agent at its principal office, for the
benefit of the  Guaranteed  Creditors,  the  equivalent  amount in U.S.  dollars
computed  at the  selling  rate of the  Administrative  Agent or a selling  rate
chosen by the  Administrative  Agent, most recently in effect on or prior to the
date the Liability  becomes due, for cable transfers of the Payment  Currency to
the place where the  Liability is payable.  In any case in which the  Subsidiary
Guarantor makes or is obligated to make payment in U.S. dollars,  the Subsidiary
Guarantor  shall  hold the  Administrative  Agent and the  Guaranteed  Creditors
harmless from any loss incurred by the  Administrative  Agent or the  Guaranteed
Creditors  arising  from any change in the value of U.S.  dollars in relation to
the Payment Currency between the date the Liability becomes due and the date the
Guaranteed  Creditors are actually  able,  following the  conversion of the U.S.
dollars  paid  by  the  Subsidiary  Guarantor  into  the  Payment  Currency  and
remittance  of such  Payment  Currency  to the place  where  such  Liability  is
payable, to apply such Payment Currency to such Liability.

     Section 10. Certain Taxes. The Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that all
payments to be made hereunder shall be made without setoff or  counterclaim  and
free and clear of, and without  deduction for, any  Indemnified  Taxes and Other
Taxes. If any Indemnified Taxes and Other Taxes are required to be withheld from
any  amounts  payable  to  the  Administrative  Agent  for  the  benefit  of the
Guaranteed  Creditors  hereunder,  the amounts so payable to the  Administrative
Agent for the benefit of the  Guaranteed  Creditors  shall be  increased  to the
extent  necessary to yield to the  Guaranteed  Creditors  (after  payment of all
Indemnified  Taxes and Other  Taxes) the amounts  payable  hereunder in the full
amounts so to be paid.  Whenever any Indemnified  Taxes and Other Taxes are paid
by the Subsidiary Guarantor, as promptly as possible thereafter,  the Subsidiary
Guarantor  shall  send the  Administrative  Agent an  official  receipt  showing
payment thereof,  together with such additional  documentary  evidence as may be
required from time to time by the Administrative Agent.

     Section  11.  Representations  and  Warranties.  The  Subsidiary  Guarantor
represents  and  warrants  that:  (a)  this  Subsidiary  Guaranty  (i) has  been
authorized by all  necessary  corporate  action;  (ii) except as to matters that
could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material  Adverse  Effect,  does
not violate any agreement,  instrument,  law,  regulation or order applicable to
the  Subsidiary  Guarantor;  (iii) does not require the consent or approval  of,
registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority;
and (iv) is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Subsidiary  Guarantor
enforceable  against the  Subsidiary  Guarantor  in  accordance  with its terms,
subject to applicable bankruptcy,  insolvency,  reorganization,  moratorium,  or
other  laws  affecting  creditors'  rights  generally  and  subject  to  general
principles of equity regardless of whether  considered in a proceeding in equity
or at law; and (b) in executing and delivering  this  Subsidiary  Guaranty,  the
Subsidiary Guarantor has (i) without reliance on the Administrative Agent or the
Guaranteed  Creditors or any information  received from the Administrative Agent
or the  Guaranteed  Creditors and based upon such  documents and  information it
deems  appropriate,  made  an  independent  investigation  of  the  transactions


                                  EXHIBIT D-5


<PAGE>


contemplated  hereby  and  the  Borrower,   the  Borrower's  business,   assets,
operations,   prospects  and   condition,   financial  or  otherwise,   and  any
circumstances  which  may bear  upon  such  transactions,  the  Borrower  or the
obligations and risks undertaken  herein with respect to the  Liabilities;  (ii)
adequate  means to obtain from the  Borrower on a continuing  basis  information
concerning  the  Borrower;  (iii)  has  full  and  complete  access  to the Loan
Documents  and  any  other  documents  executed  in  connection  with  the  Loan
Documents;  and (iv) not  relied and will not rely upon any  representations  or
warranties of the Administrative  Agent or the Guaranteed Creditors not embodied
herein or any acts heretofore or hereafter taken by the Administrative  Agent or
the  Guaranteed  Creditors  (including  but not  limited  to any  review  by the
Administrative  Agent  or  the  Guaranteed  Creditors  of  the  affairs  of  the
Borrower).

     Section 12. Remedies  Generally.  The remedies  provided in this Subsidiary
Guaranty are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.

     Section 13.  Formalities.  The  Subsidiary  Guarantor  waives  presentment,
notice of dishonor, protest, notice of acceptance of this Subsidiary Guaranty or
incurrence of any Liability and any other  formality  with respect to any of the
Liabilities or this Subsidiary Guaranty.

     Section 14.  Amendments and Waivers to Guaranty.  No amendment or waiver of
any provision of this Subsidiary  Guaranty,  nor consent to any departure by the
Subsidiary Guarantor  therefrom,  shall be effective unless it is in writing and
signed by each of the Guaranteed Creditors, and then the waiver or consent shall
be  effective  only in the specific  instance  and for the specific  purpose for
which given. No failure on the part of the Guaranteed Creditors to exercise, and
no delay in exercising,  any right under this Subsidiary  Guaranty shall operate
as a waiver or preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of
any other right.  Each Subsidiary  Guarantor hereby waives any and all notice of
the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Liabilities and notice
of or proof  of  reliance  by the  Guaranteed  Creditors  upon  this  Subsidiary
Guaranty or acceptance of this Subsidiary Guaranty; the Liabilities,  and any of
them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred,
or  renewed,  extended,  amended or waived,  in  reliance  upon this  Subsidiary
Guaranty and no notice of creation of the Liabilities or any extension of credit
already or hereafter  contracted by or extended to the Borrower need be given to
any Subsidiary  Guarantor;  and all dealings between the Borrower and any of the
Subsidiary  Guarantors,  on the one hand, and the Guaranteed  Creditors,  on the
other  hand,  likewise  shall  be  conclusively  presumed  to have  been  had or
consummated in reliance upon this Subsidiary Guaranty. Each Subsidiary Guarantor
waives diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment and notice of default
or nonpayment to or upon the Borrower or any of the Subsidiary  Guarantors  with
respect to the Liabilities.

     Section  15.  Expenses.   The  Subsidiary  Guarantor  shall  reimburse  the
Administrative  Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed  Creditors on demand for
all reasonable  out-of-pocket  expenses (including without limitation reasonable
fees,  charges and  disbursements  of any counsel for the Guaranteed  Creditors)
incurred by the Guaranteed  Creditors in connection with the enforcement of this
Subsidiary  Guaranty.  Attorneys' fees reimbursed by the Subsidiary Guarantor in
connection  with this  Subsidiary  Guaranty  shall be for a single  law firm per
country (unless conflicts (including conflicts between the Administrative Agent,
the  Co-Arrangers  and  the  other  Lenders  as  determined  in  the  reasonable
discretion  of the Required  Lenders)  otherwise  prohibit the  engagement  of a
single law firm) plus a single local  counsel in each  jurisdiction  where local
counsel is reasonably required.


                                  EXHIBIT D-6


<PAGE>



     Section 16. Assignment.  This Subsidiary  Guaranty shall be binding on, and
shall inure to the benefit of the Subsidiary Guarantor, the Administrative Agent
and the  Guaranteed  Creditors  and their  respective  successors  and  assigns;
provided that the Subsidiary  Guarantor may not assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under this Subsidiary  Guaranty.  Without limiting the generality of
the  foregoing:  (a) the  obligations  of the  Subsidiary  Guarantor  under this
Subsidiary Guaranty shall continue in full force and effect and shall be binding
on any  successor  partnership  and on previous  partners  and their  respective
estates if the Subsidiary  Guarantor is a partnership,  regardless of any change
in the  partnership  as a result of death  retirement or otherwise;  and (b) the
Guaranteed  Creditors may assign,  sell  participations in or otherwise transfer
their rights under the Loan  Documents to another person or entity to the extent
expressly  permitted  by  Section  9.04 of the Credit  Agreement,  and the other
person or entity  shall then become  vested  with all the rights  granted to the
Guaranteed Creditors in this Subsidiary Guaranty or otherwise.

     Section 17. Captions. The headings and captions in this Subsidiary Guaranty
are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation or construction
of this Subsidiary Guaranty.

     Section 18. Governing Law, Etc. THIS SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED
BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF  TEXAS.  THE  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTOR  CONSENTS  TO THE
NONEXCLUSIVE  JURISDICTION  AND VENUE OF THE STATE OR FEDERAL  COURTS LOCATED IN
THE STATE OF TEXAS.  SERVICE OF PROCESS BY THE BANK IN CONNECTION  WITH ANY SUCH
DISPUTE SHALL BE BINDING ON THE  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTOR IF SENT TO THE SUBSIDIARY
GUARANTOR  BY  REGISTERED  MAIL AT THE ADDRESS  SPECIFIED  BELOW OR AS OTHERWISE
SPECIFIED  BY THE  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTOR  FROM  TIME  TO  TIME.  THE  SUBSIDIARY
GUARANTOR  WAIVES ANY RIGHT THE  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTOR MAY HAVE TO JURY TRIAL IN
ANY ACTION RELATED TO THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS  CONTEMPLATED
HEREBY AND FURTHER  WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO INTERPOSE  ANY  COUNTERCLAIM  RELATED TO
THIS SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTY OR THE  TRANSACTIONS  CONTEMPLATED  HEREBY IN ANY SUCH
ACTION. TO THE EXTENT THAT THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTOR HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE
ANY IMMUNITY FROM  JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR FROM ANY LEGAL PROCESS  (WHETHER
FROM  SERVICE OR NOTICE,  ATTACHMENT  PRIOR TO  JUDGMENT,  ATTACHMENT  IN AID OF
EXECUTION  OF A JUDGMENT,  EXECUTION OR  OTHERWISE),  THE  SUBSIDIARY  GUARANTOR
HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY.


                                  EXHIBIT D-7


<PAGE>



     Section 19.  Integration;  Effectiveness.  This written Subsidiary Guaranty
embodies  the entire  agreement  and  understanding  between the Lenders and the
Subsidiary  Guarantor and  supersedes all other  agreements  and  understandings
between  such  parties  relating  to the subject  matter  hereof.  This  written
Subsidiary  Guaranty  represents the final agreement between the parties and may
not be  contradicted by evidence of prior,  contemporaneous,  or subsequent oral
agreements of the parties.  There are no unwritten oral  agreements  between the
parties.


                                  EXHIBIT D-8


<PAGE>


     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Subsidiary  Guarantor has caused this  Subsidiary
Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered by its duly authorized  officer as of
the date first above written.

                                             PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA INC.


                                             By:
                                                ------------------------------
                                             Name:
                                             Title:


                                             Address:



                                  EXHIBIT D-9




<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT E

                                     FORM OF

                                 PROMISSORY NOTE

$[       ]                                                  [        ], 200[  ]

     FOR  VALUE  RECEIVED,   Pioneer  Natural  Resources   Company,  a  Delaware
corporation,  (the  "Borrower")  hereby promises to pay to the order of [ ] (the
"Lender"),  at the principal office of JPMorgan Chase Bank (the  "Administrative
Agent"),  at [ ], the principal sum of [ ] Dollars ($[ ]) (or such lesser amount
as shall equal the aggregate  unpaid  principal  amount of the Loans made by the
Lender to the Borrower under the Credit Agreement,  as hereinafter  defined), in
lawful money of the United States of America and in immediately available funds,
on the dates and in the principal amounts provided in the Credit Agreement,  and
to pay  interest  on the  unpaid  principal  amount of each such  Loan,  at such
office,  in like money and funds, for the period  commencing on the date of such
Loan until  such Loan  shall be paid in full,  at the rates per annum and on the
dates provided in the Credit Agreement.

     The date, amount, Type, interest rate, Interest Period and maturity of each
Loan made by the Lender to the Borrower, and each payment made on account of the
principal  thereof,  shall be recorded by the Lender on its books and,  prior to
any  transfer of this Note,  may be endorsed  by the Lender on  schedules  to be
attached hereto or any continuation thereof or on any separate record maintained
by the Lender.  Failure to make any such notation or to attach a schedule  shall
not affect any Lender's or the  Borrower's  rights or  obligations in respect of
such Loans or affect the validity of such transfer by any Lender of this Note.

     This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit  Agreement dated as
of December [ ], 2003 among the  Borrower,  the  Administrative  Agent,  and the
other agents and lenders signatory thereto (including the Lender), and evidences
Loans made by the Lender  thereunder  (such Credit  Agreement as the same may be
amended,  supplemented  or restated from time to time, the "Credit  Agreement").
Capitalized  terms used in this Note have the  respective  meanings  assigned to
them in the Credit Agreement.

     This Note is issued pursuant to the Credit Agreement and is entitled to the
benefits provided for in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  The
Credit Agreement provides for the acceleration of the maturity of this Note upon
the occurrence of certain  events,  for  prepayments of Loans upon the terms and
conditions specified therein and other provisions relevant to this Note.

     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE  WITH, THE LAWS
OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.


                                  EXHIBIT E-1



<PAGE>




     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  Borrower  has caused this  Agreement  to be duly
executed as of the day and year first above written.

                                            PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


                                            By:
                                                  -----------------------------
                                            Name:
                                                  -----------------------------
                                            Title:
                                                  -----------------------------



                                  EXHIBIT E-2


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>pnrx211.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 21.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.1


                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
    of Organization      Subsidiaries

Delaware                 DMLP Co.
Netherlands              D, P & D Investments B.V.
Delaware                 Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                    Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Delaware                 Pioneer International Resources Company
Texas                    Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Delaware                 Pioneer Natural Resources Alaska, Inc.
Cayman Islands           Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd.
Argentina                Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.
Cayman Islands           Pioneer Natural Resources Borj El Khadra Ltd.
Canada                   Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Cayman Islands           Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Texas                    Pioneer Natural Resources  Scholarship Foundation
South Africa             Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty) Limited
Argentina                Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Cayman Islands           Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd.
Delaware                 Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Bahamas                  Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Bahamas                  Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Texas                    Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                 Westpan NGL LP
Delaware                 Westpan Properties, Inc.
Nevada                   Westpan Resources Company
Delaware                 Westpan Resources LP


                         Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                         is the managing general partner

Delaware                 Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P.
Texas                    Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>pnrx231.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 23.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1



                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
333-88438,  No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No.  333-39153,  No. 333-39249,  No.
33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No. 333-88478,  No.
333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 of Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company and the related  Prospectuses of our report dated January 26,
2004, with respect to the consolidated  financial  statements of Pioneer Natural
Resources Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003.


                                             Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
January 30, 2004






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>pnrx232.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 23.2
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.2



            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS


     We hereby  consent to the  incorporation  by reference in the  Registration
     Statements (No. 333-88438, No. 333-35087, No. 333-35165, No. 333-39153, No.
     333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and
     (No.  333-88478,  No. 333-42315,  No. 333-44439 and No. 333- 39381) on Form
     S-3 of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company and the related  Prospectuses of
     the reference of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. in the Annual Report
     on Form  10-K for the year  ended  December 31,  2003, of  Pioneer  Natural
     Resources  Company  and its  subsidiaries,  filed with the  Securities  and
     Exchange Commission.


                                       NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.


                                       By:    /s/ Frederic D. Sewell
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Frederic D.  Sewell
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Dallas, Texas
February 2, 2004



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>pnrx233.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 23.3
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.3



                  CONSENT OF GAFFNEY, CLINE & ASSOCIATES, INC.


As the  independent  reserve  engineers for Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company
(Pioneer),  Gaffney, Cline & Associates,  Inc. (GCA) hereby confirms that it has
granted and not  withdrawn  its  consent to the  reference  in the  Registration
Statements (No.  333-88438,  No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153,  No.
333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No. 333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No.
333-88478,  No.  333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 as
disclosed by Pioneer in its Form 10-K submission to the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2003.




                                              GAFFNEY, CLINE & ASSOCIATES, INC.




                                              By: /s/ Rawdon J.H. Seager
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                  Rawdon J.H. Seager


Houston, Texas
February 2, 2004







<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>pnrx311.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 31.1
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 31.1

                      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION


     I, Scott D.  Sheffield, certify that:

     I have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K of  Pioneer  Natural
Resources Company;

     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
a  material  fact  or omit  to  state a  material  fact  necessary  to make  the
statements  made, in light of  circumstances  under which such  statements  were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

     Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a)   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
     controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to ensure
     that  material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,  including  its
     consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made  known to us by  others  within  those
     entities,  particularly  during the  period in which  this  report is being
     prepared;

b)   Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the registrant's  disclosure  controls and
     procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
     effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of
     the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal  control
     over financial  reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
     fiscal  quarter (the  Registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
     annual report) that has  materially  affected,  or is reasonably  likely to
     materially  affect,  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
     reporting; and

     The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)   All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the design or
     operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
     likely to adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to record,  process,
     summarize and report financial information; and

b)   Any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
     employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control
     over financial reporting.

February 2, 2004



                                   /s/ Scott D.  Sheffield
                                  -------------------------------------------
                                  Scott D.  Sheffield, Chairman, President
                                  and Chief Executive Officer




<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>pnrx312.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 31.2
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 31.2

                      CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION


     I, Timothy L.  Dove, certify that:

     I have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K of  Pioneer  Natural
Resources Company:

     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
a  material  fact  or omit  to  state a  material  fact  necessary  to make  the
statements  made, in light of  circumstances  under which such  statements  were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

     Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

     The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a)   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
     controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to ensure
     that  material  information  relating  to  the  registrant,  including  its
     consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made  known to us by  others  within  those
     entities,  particularly  during the  period in which  this  report is being
     prepared;

b)   Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the registrant's  disclosure  controls and
     procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
     effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of
     the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal  control
     over financial  reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
     fiscal  quarter (the  Registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
     annual report) that has  materially  affected,  or is reasonably  likely to
     materially  affect,  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
     reporting; and

     The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)   All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the design or
     operation  of  internal   controls  over  financial   reporting  which  are
     reasonably  likely to adversely affect the registrant's  ability to record,
     process, summarize and report financial information; and

b)   Any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
     employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control
     over financial reporting.

February 2, 2004




                                    /s/ Timothy L.  Dove
                                  --------------------------------------------
                                  Timothy L.  Dove, Executive Vice President
                                  and Chief Financial Officer



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>pnrx321.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 32.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 32.1



                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350


     I, Scott D. Sheffield,  Chairman,  President and Chief Executive Officer of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company (the  "Company"),  hereby  certify that the
accompanying  report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and filed
with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on the date hereof  pursuant to
Section  15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (the  "Report")  by the
Company fully complies with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all  material  aspects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.



                                  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                 -------------------------------------------
                         Name:   Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman, President
                                   and Chief Executive Officer
                         Date:   February 2, 2004



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>pnrx322.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PIONEER 12/31/03 10-K EXH. 32.2
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 32.2



                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350


     I, Timothy L. Dove, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company (the  "Company"),  hereby  certify that the
accompanying  report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and filed
with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on the date hereof  pursuant to
Section  15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (the  "Report")  by the
Company fully complies with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all  material  aspects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.



                                    /s/ Timothy L. Dove
                                   -------------------------------------------
                          Name:   Timothy L. Dove, Executive Vice
                                     President and Chief Financial Officer
                          Date:   February 2, 2004



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
