-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Jgyb/a48IgdEtJY6Y37DCeNGR5Np7AivmbvCgDggZXbCwMY7r0smcEplSsWFZsW4
 Jn/zP1v/aJRFqeEfw/NR2A==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-00-000002.txt : 20000307
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-00-000002.hdr.sgml : 20000307
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-00-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000302

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		559250

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999


                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                               75-2702753
         (State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

 1400 Williams Square West, 5205 N.  O'Connor Blvd., Irving, Texas    75039
          (Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                      Name of each exchange
    Title of each class                                on which registered

    Common Stock..................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. X

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
  of the Registrant as of February 28, 2000.....................   $721,125,899

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
  February 28, 2000.............................................    100,016,779

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1) Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 18, 2000 -
    Referenced in Part III of this report.




<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                              CROSS REFERENCE SHEET

              Pursuant to National Policy Statement No. 47 (Canada)
                        (Annual Information Form ("AIF"))

Item Number and Caption of AIF        Heading or Location in Form 10-K
- ------------------------------        --------------------------------

1.   Incorporation                    Item 1.   Business

2.   General Development of the
     Business                         Item 1.   Business

3.   Narrative Description of the
     Business                         Item 1.   Business
                                      Item 2.   Properties

4.   Selected Consolidated Financial
     Information                      Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
                                      Item 8.   Financial Statements and
                                                Supplementary Data

5.   Management's Discussion and
     Analysis                         Item 7.   Management's Discussion and
                                                Analysis of Financial Condition
                                                and Results of Operations
                                      Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative
                                                Disclosures About Market Risk

6.   Market for Securities            Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common
                                                Stock and Related Stockholder
                                                Matters

7.   Directors and Officers           Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
                                                of the Registrant

8.   Additional Information           Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers
                                                of the Registrant
                                      Item 11.  Executive Compensation
                                      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain
                                                Beneficial Owners and Management

                                      Item 13.  Certain Relationships and
                                                Related Transactions

                                        2


<PAGE>



       Parts I and II of this annual report on Form 10-K (the "Report")  contain
forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking statements. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation"
and  "Item 1.  Business  - Risks  Associated  with  Business  Activities"  for a
description of various factors that could  materially  affect the ability of the
Company to achieve the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward  looking
statements.

          Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

       Within this Annual  Report on Form 10-K,  the following oil and gas terms
and conventions have specific meanings: "Bbl" means a standard barrel containing
42 United States  gallons;  "Bcf" means one billion  cubic feet;  "Bcfe" means a
billion cubic feet  equivalent and is a standard  convention used to express oil
and  gas  volumes  on  a  comparable  gas  equivalent   basis;   "BOE"  means  a
barrel-of-oil  equivalent and is a standard  convention  used to express oil and
gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent  basis;  "Btu" means British  thermal
unit and is an energy  equivalent  measure  of  natural  gas;  "MBbl"  means one
thousand  Bbls;  "MBOE" means one thousand BOE;  "Mcf" means one thousand  cubic
feet and is a measure of natural gas  volume;  "MMcf"  means one  million  cubic
feet;  "NGL" means  natural gas liquid;  "NYMEX"  means The New York  Mercantile
Exchange;  "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural
gas and natural gas liquids which  geological and engineering  data  demonstrate
with  reasonable  certainty  to  be  recoverable  in  future  years  from  known
reservoirs under existing economic and operating  conditions  (i.e.,  prices and
costs as of the date the estimate is made),  where prices include  consideration
of changes in existing prices only to the extent that price changes are provided
for under existing contractual arrangements, but not escalations based on future
conditions;  and, "PV 10 Value" means the present value of estimated  future net
revenues, before income taxes, of proved reserves, determined in accordance with
the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  United  States  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  (the "SEC"),  using prices and costs in effect at the specified date
and a 10 percent discount rate.

       Natural gas equivalents are determined  under the relative energy content
method by using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL.

       With respect to  information on the working  interest in wells,  drilling
locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined
by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by Pioneer Natural
Resources Company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres.
Unless otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling  locations and acreage statistics
quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or acres;  and, all
dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

       Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer",  or the  "Company"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  was formed by the  merger of Parker & Parsley  Petroleum
Company  ("Parker & Parsley") and MESA Inc.  ("Mesa")  during  August 1997.  The
Company subsequently acquired the Canadian and Argentine oil and gas business of
Chauvco Resources Ltd. ("Chauvco"),  a publicly traded,  independent oil and gas
company based in Calgary,  Canada,  during December 1997.  Pioneer is an oil and
gas exploration and production  company with ownership  interests in oil and gas
properties  located in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada,  South Africa and
Gabon.

       The  combined  physical  assets  and  management  resources  of  Parker &
Parsley,  Mesa and Chauvco  have created a company  with a solid  foundation  of
complementary assets and industry expertise.  This foundation is anchored by the
Spraberry  oil field  located in West Texas,  the  Hugoton gas field  located in
Southwest  Kansas  and  the  West  Panhandle  gas  field  located  in the  Texas
Panhandle.  The Spraberry,  Hugoton and West Panhandle fields provide consistent
and dependable production,  cash flow and ongoing development  opportunities for
the  Company.  Complementing  these areas are the  exploration  and  development
opportunities and oil and gas  production contributed by Pioneer's assets in the

                                        3


<PAGE>



United  States Gulf Coast area,  Argentina  and Canada.  These  assets  create a
portfolio of resources and  opportunities  that are well  balanced  between oil,
natural gas liquids  and natural  gas;  and,  between  long-  lived,  dependable
production and  exploration  and development  opportunities.  Additionally,  the
Company  has a team of  dedicated  employees  that  represent  the  professional
disciplines  and  sciences  that will allow  Pioneer to maximize  the  long-term
profitability and net asset values inherent in its physical assets.

       Both the merger with Mesa and the  acquisition  of Chauvco were accounted
for as purchases by the Company  (formerly Parker & Parsley).  As a result,  the
historical financial,  reserve and other statistical information for the Company
are those of Parker & Parsley  prior to August 1997.  The  Company's  financial,
reserve and other  statistical  information  present the  addition of Mesa's and
Chauvco's  assets and  liabilities as  acquisitions in August and December 1997,
respectively.

       The Company provides administrative,  financial and management support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil,  NGL and natural gas  reserves.  Drilling  and  production  operations  are
principally located  domestically in Texas,  Kansas,  Oklahoma,  Louisiana,  New
Mexico and offshore Gulf of Mexico, and internationally in Argentina, Canada and
South Africa.

       The Company's executive offices are located at 1400 Williams Square West,
5205 N. O'Connor Blvd.,  Irving,  Texas 75039; the Company's telephone number is
(972) 444-9001.  The Company maintains other offices in Midland,  Texas;  Buenos
Aires, Argentina;  Calgary,  Canada; and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31,
1999,  the Company  had 817  employees,  298 of whom were  employed in field and
plant operations.

Mission and Strategies

       The Company's mission is to provide shareholders with superior investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset values.  The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are anchored
by the Company's  long-lived  Spraberry oil field and Hugoton and West Panhandle
gas fields' reserves and production.  Underlying these fields are  approximately
70 percent of the Company's  proved oil and gas reserves  which have a remaining
production life in excess of 40 years. The stable base of oil and gas production
from these fields generate operating cash flows that allow Pioneer the financial
flexibility to selectively  reinvest  capital in these areas to: (a) develop and
increase  production  from  existing  properties  through  low-risk  development
drilling  activities,  (b) leverage cost  containment  opportunities  to achieve
operating and technical  efficiencies,  and (c) pursue strategic acquisitions in
the Company's core areas that will complement the Company's  existing asset base
and provide  additional growth  opportunities.  The Company is also provided the
financial  flexibility  to use  portions  of its  operating  cash  flows to: (a)
selectively  expand into new geographic areas that feature producing  properties
and provide exploration/exploitation  opportunities, (b) invest in the personnel
and technology  necessary to increase the Company's  exploration  opportunities,
and (c) enhance  liquidity;  allowing  the Company to take  advantage  of future
exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. The Company is committed
to continuing to enhance  shareholder  investment  returns through  adherence to
these strategies.

Business Activities

       The Company is an independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  development
company. Its purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and
produce proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells
homogenous  oil,  NGL and natural gas units  which,  except for  geographic  and
relatively   minor   qualitative   differentials,    cannot   be   significantly
differentiated  from  units  offered  for  sale  by the  Company's  competitors.
Competitive  advantage is gained in the oil and gas  exploration and development
industry through superior capital investment decisions, technological innovation
and managing costs.

       Petroleum  Industry.  The petroleum  industry has been  characterized  by
volatile  oil,  NGL and  natural  gas  commodity  prices and  relatively  stable
supplier costs during the three years ended  December 31, 1999.  During 1997 and
1998,  weather  patterns,  regional  economic  recessions and political  matters
combined to cause  worldwide  crude oil supplies to exceed demand.  As a result,
crude oil prices  declined  substantially  from the price  levels of 1996.  Also
during  1997 and 1998,  but to a lesser  extent,  market  prices for natural gas
declined.  During the  first  quarter  of 1999,  the  Organization of  Petroleum

                                        4


<PAGE>



Exporting  Companies  and certain other crude oil  exporting  nations  announced
reductions in their planned export volumes.  Those announcements,  together with
the enactment of the announced reductions in export volumes, have had a positive
impact on world crude oil prices. No assurances can be given that the reductions
in export volumes or the positive  trend in oil and gas commodity  prices can be
sustained  for an extended  period of time.  However,  the  improvements  in the
commodity price environment have enhanced the Company's  financial  flexibility,
as compared to what existed at the end of 1998.  The Company  intends to monitor
closely the business  environment and to continue its efforts to reduce debt and
create financial flexibility.

       The Company.  The Company  intends to continue to reduce its  outstanding
indebtedness  in order to provide  sufficient  financial  flexibility for future
exploration,  development and acquisition  opportunities.  While the Company has
recently  incurred  higher  levels  of  debt  to  take  advantage  of  strategic
opportunities,   management's  objective  is  to  maintain  a  flexible  capital
structure  and to  strengthen  the  Company's  financial  position  through debt
management.

       As with any organization, the Company has experienced various debt levels
in recent years as it has responded to strategic opportunities.  During 1996 and
1995,  the  Company  took  deliberate  actions to reduce its debt  levels and to
extend its debt  maturities  in order to improve its financial  flexibility  and
enable it to take advantage of future strategic  opportunities.  The Company was
able to reduce its debt levels during 1996 and 1995 through the  application  of
proceeds  from the  disposition  of assets that the Company  had  identified  as
non-core.  In 1997,  the  Company's  debt  level  increased  as a result  of the
assumption  of the debt of Mesa and Chauvco.  In 1998,  severe  commodity  price
declines  reduced cash flows from operating  activities,  causing the Company to
utilize debt to finance  capital  investments.  As a result of the  increases in
debt, and reductions in shareholders'  equity primarily  resulting from 1998 and
1997  non-cash  asset  impairment  provisions  (see  Notes L and N of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data"), the Company's debt as a percentage of total capitalization
increased  to 73  percent  and  56  percent  at  December  31,  1998  and  1997,
respectively.

       During 1998, the Company formulated and implemented  measures to increase
its financial  flexibility and to safeguard its net asset values. Those measures
included the enactment of an operating  strategy  focused on the  enhancement of
core  assets and the  divestiture  of non-core  assets,  the  enactment  of cost
containment measures and the reduction of outstanding indebtedness.

       The Company's  core assets are anchored by its United States  investments
in the  long-lived  Spraberry  oil field and the Hugoton and West  Panhandle gas
fields (see  "Mission  and  Strategies",  above).  As a result of the  strategic
superiority of the Company's core assets, Pioneer was able to reduce its capital
expenditures  to $179.7  million  during  1999 in support of its debt  reduction
efforts.  The Company's budgeted 2000 capital expenditures are $250 million (see
"Drilling Activities" and "Exploratory Activities", below).

       During 1999, the Company realized $420.5 million of net proceeds from the
divestiture of non-core assets and completed the asset  divestiture phase of the
financial  measures  formulated  in 1998.  Net cash  proceeds of $390.5  million
associated  with the 1999  asset  divestitures  were used to reduce  outstanding
indebtedness  (see  "Asset  Divestitures"  and Note K of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data").

       During 1998, the Company  implemented cost containment  measures intended
to reduce future production and  administrative  costs.  Those measures included
the  centralization in Irving,  Texas of certain  operational and administrative
functions  previously  based in Midland,  Texas;  the closings of the  Company's
regional offices in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Corpus Christi, Texas, and Houston,
Texas; and, the elimination of approximately 350 employee positions.  Associated
with these  measures,  the  Company  recognized  reorganization  charges of $8.5
million and $33.2 million during 1999 and 1998,  and realized  reductions in per
BOE  production  costs from $3.56 in 1998 to $3.12 in 1999 and reductions in per
BOE administrative costs from $1.16 in 1998 to $.79 in 1999.

       The strategic measures formulated and implemented as of December 31, 1998
have  allowed  the  Company to reduce  its  outstanding  indebtedness  from $2.2
billion at December  31, 1998 to $1.7  billion at December  31, 1999 and realize
reductions in total costs and expenses from $959.6  million  during 1998 (before
impairment  of oil and gas  properties  and  reorganization  expense)  to $706.8
million during 1999.  The Company's debt as a percentage of total capitalization

                                        5


<PAGE>



declined to 69 percent at December 31, 1999. During 2000, the Company intends to
improve  its ratio of debt to total  capitalization  by limiting  the  Company's
capital  expenditure budget to $250 million and using the excess funds generated
by operating  activities  to further  reduce debt.  The  accomplishment  of this
objective in 2000 will be  dependent  on, among other  things,  commodity  price
levels  and other  factors  that  impact  the  Company's  net cash  provided  by
operating activities.

       Production.  The  Company  focuses  its efforts  towards  maximizing  its
average  daily  production  of oil,  NGL and gas through  development  drilling,
production  enhancement  activities and  acquisitions  of producing  properties.
Average daily oil, NGL and gas production  have each increased  every year since
1991,  with the  exception  of 1999 and  1996,  when  average  daily  production
declined due to property dispositions. Comparing 1994 to 1999, average daily oil
and NGL  production  has increased 103 percent and average daily gas  production
has  increased  99  percent,  while  production  costs per BOE have  declined 38
percent.  Production,  price and cost  information with respect to the Company's
properties  for  each of  1999,  1998  and  1997 is set  forth  under  "Item  2.
Properties  - Selected  Oil and Gas  Information  -  Production,  Price and Cost
Data".

        Drilling  Activities.  The  Company  seeks to  increase  its oil and gas
reserves,  production  and  cash  flow by  concentrating  on  drilling  low-risk
development wells and by conducting  additional  development  activities such as
recompletions.  From the beginning of 1995 through the end of 1999,  the Company
drilled  2,572 gross  (1,782 net) wells,  92 percent of which were  successfully
completed as productive  wells, at a total cost (net to the Company's  interest)
of $1.3 billion.  During 1999, the Company drilled 304 gross (209 net) wells for
a total cost (net to the Company's interest) of approximately $142.0 million, 69
percent of which was spent on  development  wells and  related  facilities.  The
Company's  current  2000  capital  expenditure  budget  is $250  million,  which
represents  a spending  increase  of  approximately  25 percent  over 1999 costs
incurred.  The Company has allocated the budgeted 2000 capital  expenditures  as
follows: $200 million to exploitation activities, and $50 million to exploration
activities.

       The  Company   believes  that  its  current   property  base  provides  a
substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow
growth.   The  Company's  reserves  as  of  December  31,  1999  include  proved
undeveloped and proved developed  non-producing reserves of 63.2 million Bbls of
oil and NGLs and 365 Bcf of gas. The timing of the development of these reserves
will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's expected
operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company believes
that  its  current  portfolio  of  undeveloped   prospects  provides  attractive
development  and exploration  opportunities  for at least the next three to five
years.

       Exploratory  Activities.  Prior  to  1999,  the  Company  was  dedicating
increasing percentages of its annual exploration/exploitation capital budgets to
exploratory  projects:  18 percent in 1996, 28 percent in 1997 and 30 percent in
1998.  As a result of the  downturn in  commodity  prices,  the  Company's  1999
capital  expenditures  were  limited to $179.7  million,  of which  amount $43.5
million  was  expended  for  exploration   activities.   The  Company  currently
anticipates  that its 2000  exploration  efforts,  which  comprise 20 percent of
total budgeted 2000 expenditures,  will be concentrated domestically in the Gulf
of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast area, Argentina and South Africa.  Exploratory
drilling  involves  greater  risks of dry holes or  failure  to find  commercial
quantities  of  hydrocarbons  than  development  drilling or  enhanced  recovery
activities.  See "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with Business Activities -
Risks of Drilling Activities" below.

       Asset  Divestitures.  The Company regularly reviews its property base for
the purpose of  identifying  non-core  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does
not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have  the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  financial
flexibility through reduced debt levels.

       During  1999,  1998  and  1997,  the  Company's   divestitures  primarily
consisted  of the sale of oil and gas  properties  for net  proceeds  of  $420.5
million, $21.9 million and $115.7 million, respectively,  which resulted in 1999
and  1998  net   divestiture   losses  of  $24.2  million  and  $445   thousand,
respectively,  and a 1997 net divestiture gain of $5.0 million.  The assets that
the Company  divested  during 1999 were comprised of non-core  United States and
Canadian oil and gas  properties,  gas plants and other  assets.  United  States
asset divestitures  comprised 86 percent,  or $361.2 million,  of the total 1999

                                        6


<PAGE>



proceeds from the  divestiture of oil and gas  properties;  and,  Canadian asset
divestitures  comprised 14 percent,  or $59.3 million of the total 1999 proceeds
from the divestiture of oil and gas  properties.  The net cash proceeds from the
1999 asset  dispositions  were used to reduce  the  Company's  outstanding  bank
indebtedness  and,  during  1998 and  1997,  the net cash  proceeds  from  asset
dispositions were used to provide funding for a portion of the Company's capital
expenditures,  including  purchases of oil and gas  properties  in the Company's
core areas. See Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific  information
regarding the Company's asset divestitures.

       The  Company  anticipates  that it will  continue  to sell  non-strategic
properties from time to time to increase capital  resources  available for other
activities, to achieve operating and administrative  efficiencies and to improve
profitability.

       Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploitation   and  development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide  exploration/exploitation   opportunities.   During  1999,  the  Company
acquired  Argentine  proved and unproved oil and gas properties  that complement
its existing operations in Argentina. The Company paid $38.8 million of cash for
the  Argentine  assets  during the fourth  quarter of 1999, of which amount $2.5
million  was  cash  consideration  paid  for  unproved  Argentine  oil  and  gas
properties.  (See "Item 2.  Properties").  During 1998, the Company  reduced its
emphasis on major  acquisitions  and  concentrated its efforts on maximizing the
value of the properties  acquired in 1997.  During 1997,  the Company  completed
three major transactions: the merger with Mesa for total consideration of $991.0
million,  the acquisition of Chauvco for total  consideration  of $721.4 million
and the  acquisition of assets from America Cometra for total  consideration  of
$130  million.   These  acquisitions   added   significantly  to  the  Company's
exploratory  and  development  drilling  opportunities,  balanced the  Company's
reserve mix between oil and natural gas,  increased the scale of its  operations
in the United States Mid Continent and offshore Gulf Coast areas,  Argentina and
Canada and  provided  the Company  with a  significant  base of  operations  and
experienced personnel for its areas of geographic focus, including international
areas.

       The Company  regularly  pursues and evaluates  acquisition  opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;  entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and,
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal
financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.

Operations by Geographic Area

       The Company operates in one industry  segment.  During 1999 and 1998, the
Company  principally had oil and gas producing  activities in the United States,
Argentina and Canada; and, had exploration  activities in the United States Gulf
Coast area, Argentina, South Africa and Gabon. During 1997 and 1996, the Company
did not have  significant  operations in geographic  areas other than the United
States.  See Note O of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for geographic  operating
segment information, including operating revenues, net income (loss) and assets.

Marketing of Production

       General.  Production from the Company's properties is marketed consistent
with  industry  practices.  Sales  prices for oil,  NGL and gas  production  are
negotiated  based on factors  normally  considered in the industry,  such as the
spot price for gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance from
the well to the pipeline, well pressure,  estimated reserves,  commodity quality
and prevailing supply conditions.

       Significant  Purchasers.  During 1999, the Company's primary purchaser of
crude oil was Mobil Oil Corporation  ("Mobil"),  the Company's primary purchaser
of natural  gas  liquids  was  Williams  Energy  Services  ("Williams")  and the
Company's  primary purchaser of natural gas was Anadarko  Petroleum  Corporation
("Anadarko").  Approximately  seven percent,  11 percent and five percent of the
Company's 1999 combined oil,  NGL and gas revenues were attributable to sales to

                                        7


<PAGE>



Mobil, Williams and Anadarko,  respectively.  The Company is of the opinion that
the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to
sell its oil and gas production or natural gas products.

       Hedging  Activities.  The  Company  periodically  enters  into  commodity
derivative  contracts  (swaps,  futures and  options) in order to (i) reduce the
effect  of the  volatility  of price  changes  on the  commodities  the  Company
produces and sells,  (ii) support the  Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and
expenditure  plans and (iii) lock in prices to protect the economics  related to
certain capital projects.

       See "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of  Operations"  for a description  of the Company's  results of its
hedging  activities,  "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market Risk" and Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a description of
the Company's  open hedge  positions at December 31, 1999 and related prices and
notional amounts.

Competition, Markets and Regulation

       Competition.  The oil and gas  industry  is highly  competitive.  A large
number  of  companies  and  individuals   engage  in  the  exploration  for  and
development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions
of oil and gas  properties  have  been an  important  element  of the  Company's
growth,  and the Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties.
The principal  competitive  factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties
include the staff and data necessary to identify,  investigate and purchase such
properties  and the financial  resources  necessary to acquire and develop them.
Many of the Company's  competitors are  substantially  larger and have financial
and other resources greater than those of the Company.

       Markets.  The  Company's  ability  to  produce  and  market  oil  and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company  cannot  predict  the  occurrence  of events that may affect oil and gas
prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices  will be  affected,  the prices
for any oil or gas that the Company  produces  should be  equivalent  to current
market prices in the geographic region.

       Governmental   Regulation.   Oil  and  gas   exploration  and  production
operations are subject to various types of regulation by local,  state,  federal
and  foreign  agencies.  The  Company's  operations  are also  subject  to state
conservation laws and regulations,  including  provisions for the unitization or
pooling  of oil and gas  properties,  the  establishment  of  maximum  rates  of
production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of
wells.  Each state generally  imposes a production or severance tax with respect
to production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. The
regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's  cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

       The Outer  Continental  Shelf Lands Act (the  "OCSLA")  requires that all
pipelines operating on or across the Outer Continental Shelf (the "OCS") provide
open-access,  nondiscriminatory  service. Although the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  ("FERC") has chosen not to impose the  regulations of Order No. 509,
which implements the OCSLA, on gatherers and other non-jurisdictional  entities,
FERC has retained the authority to exercise  jurisdiction over those entities if
necessary to permit nondiscriminatory access to service on the OCS. In addition,
gathering  lines are currently  exempt from FERC's  jurisdiction,  regardless of
whether they are on the OCS, but FERC could eliminate this exception. Commencing
May 1994, FERC issued a series of orders in individual  cases that delineate its
current  gathering  policy.  FERC's  gathering policy was retained and clarified
with regard to deep water offshore facilities in a statement of policy issued in
February  1996.  FERC's new gathering  policy does not address its  jurisdiction
over  pipelines  operating on or across the OCS  pursuant to the OCSLA.  If FERC
were to apply Order No. 509 to gatherers on the OCS,  eliminate the exemption of
gathering lines and redefine its jurisdiction  over gathering lines,  these acts
could result in a reduction in available pipeline space for existing shippers in
the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, such as the Company.

                                        8


<PAGE>




       Additional  proposals and  proceedings  that might affect the oil and gas
industry are considered from time to time by Congress,  FERC,  state  regulatory
bodies, the courts and foreign  governments.  The Company cannot predict when or
if any such  proposals  might become  effective or their effect,  if any, on the
Company's operations.

       Environmental and Health Controls.  The Company's  operations are subject
to numerous federal,  state, local and foreign laws and regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict  air  emissions or other  discharges  resulting  from the  operation of
natural gas processing  plants,  pipeline  systems and other facilities that the
Company owns.  Although the Company believes that compliance with  environmental
laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities
are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

       The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

       The  Company  generates  wastes,  including  hazardous  wastes,  that are
subject to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  ("RCRA") and
comparable state statutes. The U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's  oil and  natural  gas  operations  that  are  currently  exempt  from
treatment as  "hazardous  wastes" may in the future be  designated as "hazardous
wastes," and  therefore be subject to more  rigorous  and costly  operating  and
disposal requirements.

       The  Company  currently  owns or  leases,  and has in the  past  owned or
leased,  properties  that for many years have been used for the  exploration and
production of oil and gas.  Although the Company has used operating and disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been
taken for disposal. In addition,  some of these properties have been operated by
third parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other
wastes was not under the  Company's  control.  These  properties  and the wastes
disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and analogous state laws. Under
such laws,  the  Company  could be required  to remove or  remediate  previously
disposed  wastes or  property  contamination  or to  perform  remedial  plugging
operations to prevent future contamination.

       Federal  regulations  require  certain  owners or operators of facilities
that  store or  otherwise  handle  oil,  such as the  Company,  to  prepare  and
implement spill  prevention  control plans,  countermeasure  plans, and facility
response  plans relating to the possible  discharge of oil into surface  waters.
The Oil Pollution  Prevention Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends certain  provisions of
the federal Water  Pollution  Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the
Clean Water Act ("CWA") and other  statutes as they pertain to the prevention of
and response to oil spills into  navigable  waters.  The OPA subjects  owners of
facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup
costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited
to,  the costs of  responding  to a release of oil to  surface  waters.  The CWA
provides  penalties  for any  discharges  of  petroleum  products in  reportable

                                        9


<PAGE>


quantities and imposes substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.
State laws for the control of water  pollution  also provide  varying  civil and
criminal  penalties and  liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its
derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.

       OPA requires  responsible  parties to establish and maintain  evidence of
financial  responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an
oil spill. OPA calls for a financial responsibility increase from $35 million to
$150 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. In August 1993,
the United States Mineral Management Service (the "MMS"), which has been charged
with  implementing  certain  segments  of OPA,  issued  its  advanced  notice of
proposed  rulemaking that would increase financial  responsibility  requirements
for offshore  lessees and  permittees to $150 million as required by OPA. Due to
the OPA's broad  definition  of "offshore  facility,"  the Company  could become
subject to the financial  responsibility  rule if it is proposed and adopted; to
date,  however,  the MMS has not formally proposed the financial  responsibility
regulations.  On May 9, 1995,  the U.S. House of  Representatives  passed a bill
that  would  lower  the  financial  responsibility  requirements  applicable  to
offshore  facilities to $35 million (the current  requirement  under the federal
OCSLA).  The bill allows the limit to be  increased  to $150 million if a formal
risk  assessment  indicates the increase to be  warranted.  It would also define
"offshore  facility"  to include  only  coastal oil and gas  properties.  A U.S.
Senate bill that would also lower the financial responsibility  requirements for
offshore  facilities  was passed in late 1995.  The Senate bill would reduce the
scope of "offshore  facilities" subject to this financial assurance  requirement
to those facilities  seaward of the U.S.  coastline that are engaged in drilling
for, producing or processing oil or that have the capacity to transport,  store,
transfer,  or handle more than 1,000  barrels of oil at a time.  Currently,  the
House and Senate bills are being reconciled in Conference Committee. The Clinton
Administration  has  indicated  support for these  changes to the OPA  financial
responsibility  requirements.  The Company  cannot predict the final form of the
financial responsibility  requirements that will be ultimately established,  but
any  role  that  requires  the  Company  to  establish   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  in the  amount  of  $150  million  has the  potential  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the Company's  results of operations  and financial
condition.  The Company does not believe that the rule to be proposed by the MMS
will be any more  burdensome to it than it will be to other  similarly  situated
oil and gas companies.

       Many states in which the Company operates have recently begun to regulate
naturally  occurring  radioactive  materials  ("NORM")  and NORM wastes that are
generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.
NORM wastes  typically  consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that
become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations
may require the testing of pipes and  production  equipment  for the presence of
NORM, the licensing of NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
disposal of NORM wastes.  The Company  believes  that the growing  regulation of
NORM will have a minimal effect on the Company's  operations because the Company
generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis.

       The Company does not believe that its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise  adversely  affect the Company's  results of operations  and financial
condition.

       The  Company   employs  an   environmental   manager  and   environmental
specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. The
Company  performs an  environmental  review as part of the due diligence work on
potential  acquisitions,  including acquisitions of oil and gas properties.  The
Company is not aware of any material  environmental  legal  proceedings  pending
against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

       The nature of the business  activities  conducted by the Company subjects
it to certain  hazards  and  risks.  The  following  is a summary of some of the
material risks relating to the Company's business activities.

       Commodity Prices. The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on prices of oil and gas,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the Company's  control.  Oil and gas prices
historically have been very volatile.  A resumption of the significant  downward
trend in oil and gas prices experienced in 1998,  as compared to 1999,  1997 and

                                       10


<PAGE>



1996  would  have  a  material   adverse  effect  on  the  Company's   revenues,
profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances,  result in a
reduction in the  carrying  value of the  Company's  oil and gas  properties,  a
valuation adjustment to the Company's deferred tax assets and a reduction in the
Company's borrowing base under its bank credit facility.

          Drilling Activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the
risk that no  commercially  productive  natural  gas or oil  reservoirs  will be
encountered.  The cost of  drilling,  completing  and  operating  wells is often
uncertain and drilling  operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or canceled as a
result  of a variety  of  factors,  including  unexpected  drilling  conditions,
pressure or  irregularities  in  formations,  equipment  failures or  accidents,
adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.
The  Company's  future  drilling  activities  may  not  be  successful  and,  if
unsuccessful,  such failure could have an adverse effect on the Company's future
results of operations  and  financial  condition.  While all  drilling,  whether
developmental  or  exploratory,   involves  these  risks,  exploratory  drilling
involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial  quantities of
hydrocarbons.  Because of the percentage of the Company's capital budget devoted
to  exploratory  projects,  it is  likely  that the  Company  will  continue  to
experience exploration and abandonment expense.

       Unproved  Properties.  At  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  the Company had
unproved  property  costs of $257.6  million and $342.6  million,  respectively.
United  States  generally  accepted   accounting   principles  require  periodic
evaluation of these costs on a  project-by-project  basis in comparison to their
estimated  value.  These  evaluations will be affected by results of exploration
activities,  commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all
or a portion of such projects.  If the quantity of potential reserves determined
by such  evaluations  are not  sufficient  to fully recover the cost invested in
each project,  the Company will be required to recognize non-cash charges in the
earnings  of future  periods.  During  1999 and  1998,  the  Company  recognized
non-cash   impairment   provisions   of  $17.9   million  and  $147.3   million,
respectively, to reduce the carrying values of its unproved properties (see Note
L of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been
a key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's growth following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future  net  revenues  attributable  to  reserves  and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

       Divestitures.  The Company  regularly  reviews its property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

       Operation of Natural Gas Processing  Plants. As of December 31, 1999, the
Company owns interests in eight natural gas processing plants and three treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  five of the plants  and all three  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas  processing  plants.  Natural gas and natural gas liquids are  volatile  and
explosive and may include  carcinogens.  Damage to or  misoperation of a natural
gas  processing  plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge
of toxic gases,  which could result in significant  damage claims in addition to
interrupting a revenue source.

       Operating  Hazards and Uninsured  Losses.  The Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained  by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry,

                                       11


<PAGE>



it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of high premium costs.

       Environmental.  The oil and gas business is also subject to environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  gas leaks and  ruptures and  discharges  of toxic
substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial  liability due
to pollution and other  environmental  damage.  A variety of federal,  state and
foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas
business.  Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company
to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost
of the Company's operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs
of acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets and Regulation -
Environmental and Health Controls".

       The Company does not believe that its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of  production or processing or a material  increase in
the costs of  production,  development,  exploration  or processing or otherwise
adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. Pollution and
similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

       Debt Restrictions and Availability. The Company is a borrower under fixed
term senior notes and a line of credit.  The terms of the  Company's  borrowings
under the senior notes and the line of credit specify  scheduled debt repayments
and the Company's compliance with certain associated covenants and restrictions.
The  Company's  ability  to comply  with the debt  repayment  terms,  associated
covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things,  factors outside
the Company's  direct  control,  such as commodity  prices,  interest  rates and
competition  for available debt  financing.  See Note D of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for  information  regarding the Company's  outstanding  debt and the terms
associated therewith.

       Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation".

       Government Regulation.  The Company's business is  regulated by a variety
of federal,  state,  local and  foreign  laws and  regulations.  There can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation".

       International  Operations. At December 31, 1999, approximately 21 percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (16 percent in Argentina and five percent in Canada).  The success
and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks
associated  with   international   activities,   including  economic  and  labor
conditions,  political  instability,  tax laws (including United States taxes on
foreign  subsidiaries)  and  changes  in the value of the United  States  dollar
versus the local  currency in which oil and gas are sold. To the extent that the
Company is involved in international  activities,  changes in exchange rates may
adversely affect the Company's  consolidated revenues and expenses (as expressed
in United States dollars).

       Estimates of Reserves  and Future Net  Revenues.  Numerous  uncertainties
exist in  estimating  quantities  of proved  reserves  and future  net  revenues
therefrom.  The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set
forth in this  Report are based on  various  assumptions,  which may  ultimately
prove to be inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be construed as
estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

       The information  included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and
gas reserves at December 31,  1999,  including PV 10 Value,  are based on proved
reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.

       Numerous uncertainties  exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report


                                       12


<PAGE>



contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production,  oil and gas prices,  revenues,
taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities
of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in
the estimates and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related
PV 10 Value of  proved  reserves  set forth in this  Report.  In  addition,  the
Company's  reserves  may be subject to  downward  or upward  revisions  based on
production  performance,  purchases  or sales of  properties,  results of future
development,  prevailing  oil and  gas  prices  and  other  factors.  Therefore,
estimates  of the PV 10 Value of proved  reserves  should  not be  construed  as
estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

       PV 10 Value is a reporting  convention  that  provides a common basis for
comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC.
It  requires  the  use of oil  and  gas  prices  prevailing  as of the  date  of
computation.  Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or
that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price  fluctuations or
other varying market conditions. PV 10 Values as of any date are not necessarily
indicative of future  results of  operations.  Accordingly,  estimates  included
herein of future net revenues may be materially  different from the net revenues
that are ultimately received.

       The  Company  did not  provide  estimates  of  total  proved  oil and gas
reserves during 1999 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.

Proved Reserves

       The Company's  proved reserves  totaled 605.5 million BOE at December 31,
1999,  676.8  million BOE at December 31, 1998 and 761.6 million BOE at December
31,  1997,   representing   $2.9   billion,   $1.6  billion  and  $3.1  billion,
respectively,  of PV 10  Value.  The  divestiture  of oil  and  gas  properties,
partially  offset by  upward  revisions  of  reserve  quantities  as a result of
increases  in  commodity  prices,  was the  primary  reason for the  decrease in
reserves during 1999.  Downward  revisions of reserve  quantities as a result of
the  decline in  commodity  prices was the  primary  reason for the  decrease in
reserves and PV 10 Value during 1998.

       On a BOE basis,  81 percent of the  Company's  total  proved  reserves at
December 31, 1999 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as
of  December  31,  1999,  and  using the  Company's  reserve  report  production
information  for  2000,  the  reserve-to-production  ratio  associated  with the
Company's  proved  reserves is 13.2 years on a BOE basis.  The  following  table
provides information  regarding the Company's proved reserves by geographic area
as of and for the year ended December 31, 1999.
<TABLE>
                           PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

                                                                             1999 Average
                      Proved Reserves As of December 31, 1999             Daily Production (a)
                  --------------------------------------------   ------------------------------
                     Oil      Natural                 PV  10       Oil      Natural
                    & NGLs      Gas                    Value      & NGLs      Gas
                   (MBbls)    (MMcf)       MBOE        (000)      (Bbls)     (Mcf)       BOE
                  --------   ---------   --------   ----------   --------   --------   --------
<S>               <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>

United States..    259,066   1,314,842    478,206   $2,337,769     55,241    290,670    103,686
Argentina......     29,797     415,620     99,067      469,100      7,037     94,457     22,780
Canada.........      3,970     145,251     28,179      130,390      5,369     49,003     13,536
                  --------   ---------   --------   ----------   --------   --------   --------
Total..........    292,833   1,875,713    605,452   $2,937,259     67,647    434,130    140,002
                  ========   =========   ========    =========   ========   ========   ========
- ----------------
</TABLE>
(a)  The 1999 average daily  production  is calculated  using a 365-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.

  Reserve Replacement

       During 1999 and 1998, the Company's proved reserves declined 71.4 million
BOE and 84.8 million BOE,  respectively.  Proved reserve  reductions during 1999
were comprised of  111.4 million BOE's from  asset divestitures and 51.1 million

                                       13


<PAGE>



BOE's of current year  production.The  Company  added 91.1 million BOE of proved
reserves  during 1999 from revisions of previous  estimates  (74.4 million BOE),
purchases  of  minerals-in-place  (7.3  million  BOE)  and new  discoveries  and
extensions  (9.4 million  BOE).  During 1998,  the  Company's  decline in proved
reserves  included  62.9  million  BOE from  production,  31.2  million BOE from
revisions  of previous  estimates  and 2.5 million BOE from asset  divestitures.
Discoveries   and  extensions  of  11.8  million  BOE  partially   offset  these
reductions.  Reserve  revisions result from several factors including changes in
existing  estimates  of  quantities  available  for  production  and  changes in
estimates of quantities  which are  economical to produce under current  pricing
conditions.  The positive  impact of revisions in 1999  primarily  resulted from
improved  commodity prices as compared to December 31, 1998 prices. The downward
revisions in 1998 relate  primarily to the decline in  commodity  prices  during
1998.  The  Company's  reserves as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 were  estimated
using NYMEX oil prices of $25.60 and $12.00 per Bbl, respectively, and NYMEX gas
prices of $2.33 and $2.00 per Mcf, respectively, resulting in realized prices of
$24.33  and  $10.09  per Bbl of oil,  respectively;  $17.59 and $6.81 per Bbl of
NGLs,  respectively;  and $1.83 and $1.64 per Mcf of gas. As prices  increase or
decrease in future  periods,  reserves  will be revised  upward or downward  for
quantities  which become  economical  or  uneconomical  to produce under the new
price assumptions.

       During 1999,  the Company  replaced 178 percent of its annual  production
(262  percent  for oil and NGL's and 99 percent  for gas),  on a BOE basis.  The
Company's  1999 reserve  replacement  was primarily  impacted by the increase in
commodity  prices.  On a BOE basis, the Company's 1998 reserve  replacement rate
was negative due to severe  declines in commodity  prices.  The  Company's  1997
reserve  replacement rate was 1,450 percent (1,375 percent for oil and NGL's and
1,528 percent for gas). For the  three-year  period ended December 31, 1999, the
Company's  average  reserve  replacement  rate was 391  percent,  as compared to
average  replacement  rates of 465  percent  and 769  percent for the three year
periods  ended  December  31,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  During  1997,  the
Company's reserve  replacement rate was primarily  reflective of its acquisition
activities.

  Finding Cost

       The Company's acquisition and finding cost per BOE for 1999 and 1997 were
$2.21 and $8.23 per BOE,  respectively.  During 1998, the Company's  acquisition
and  finding  costs were  negative.  The  negative  rate in 1998 was a result of
downward  reserve  revisions  related to the decline in commodity  prices during
1998. The rate in 1997 was primarily  impacted by the fair value associated with
Mesa's and Chauvco's  long-lived,  low  production  cost  reserves.  The average
acquisition  and finding  cost for the  three-year  period from 1997 to 1999 was
$8.36 per BOE,  representing  a three percent  decline from the 1998  three-year
average rate of $8.65.

Description of Properties

       As of December 31, 1999, the Company has operations in the United States,
Argentina and Canada, and exploration opportunities in Africa.

       Domestic.  The Company's  domestic  operations are located in the Permian
Basin, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions of the United States.  Approximately
70  percent  of the  Company's  domestic  proved  reserves  are  located  in the
Spraberry,  Hugoton and West  Panhandle  fields.  These mature  fields  generate
substantial operating cash flow and have a portfolio of low risk infill drilling
opportunities.  The cash flows  generated from these fields provide  funding for
the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and
internationally.  During 1999,  the Company  expended  $81.7 million in domestic
exploration  and  development  activities  and has budgeted  approximately  $135
million of domestic expenditures for 2000.

       Spraberry   field.  The  Spraberry  field  was  discovered  in  1949  and
encompasses  eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately  150 miles
long and 75 miles  wide at its  widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas
Intermediate  Sweet,  and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average Btu
content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas is produced from three formations,
the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to
9,200 feet.  The center of the  Spraberry  field was unitized in the late 1950's
and early  1960's by the major oil  companies;  however,  until the late  1980's
there was very  limited  development  activity  in the field.  Since  1989,  the
Company has focused  acquisition  and  development  drilling  activities  in the
unitized  portion of the  Spraberry  field due to the dormant  condition  of the
properties and the high net revenue  interests  available.  The Company believes

                                       14


<PAGE>


the area offers excellent  opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because
of the hundreds of  undeveloped  infill  drilling  locations  and the ability to
reduce operating  expenses through  economies of scale. The Company initiated an
aggressive  optimization  and  automation  cost  cutting  program  in 1998  that
continued into 1999, which has reduced operating expenses by 15 percent on a per
BOE basis.  Average lifting costs for 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $1.70,  $1.95 and
$2.01 per BOE,  respectively.  This cost reduction  program will be continued in
the future.

       During 1999,  the Company  placed on  production  137 wells,  drilled one
developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 1999, had 23 wells in progress.  The
Company plans to drill approximately 75 wells in 2000.

       Hugoton  field.  The  Hugoton  field in  Southwest  Kansas  is one of the
largest  producing gas fields in the  continental  United  States.  The gas is a
relatively  dry gas  produced  from the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at
depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's  Hugoton  properties
represent  approximately  13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are
located on  approximately  257,000  gross acres  (237,000  net acres),  covering
approximately   400  square   miles.   The  Company  has  working   interest  in
approximately  1,200  wells  in the  Hugoton  field,  almost  1,000  of which it
operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 of those wells. The
Company owns  substantially  all of the  gathering  and  processing  facilities,
primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field.
Such  ownership  allows  the  Company  to  control  the  production,  gathering,
processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.

       Production  in the Hugoton  field is subject to  allowables  set by state
regulators,  but the  Company's  Hugoton  operated  properties  are  capable  of
producing approximately 150 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the
wellhead  before  processing and before  reduction for  royalties).  The Company
estimates that it and other major  producers in the Hugoton field produced at or
near capacity in 1999.  During 1999,  the Company  completed  eight  development
wells in the Hugoton field and, at December 31, 1999, had two development  wells
in progress.  The Company plans to drill  approximately 35 development  wells in
2000.

       The Company is  considering  plans to submit an application to the Kansas
Corporation   Commission  to  allow  infill  drilling  into  the  Council  Grove
Formation.  The  Company  believes  that such  infill  drilling  could  increase
production  from its  Hugoton  properties.  There can be no  assurance  that the
application  will be approved or as to the timing of receipt of such approval if
such approval is obtained.

       West Panhandle  field.  The West Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet. The Company's  natural gas in the West Panhandle  field has an average Btu
content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is  produced  from  approximately  600 wells on
more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles.  The
Company's  wellhead gas produced from the West  Panhandle  field contains a high
quantity of NGLs,  yielding  relatively  greater NGL volumes than  realized from
many other  natural gas fields.  The Company  operates the wells and  production
equipment  and  Colorado   Interstate  Gas  Company  (a  subsidiary  of  Coastal
Corporation) owns and operates the gathering system.

       The  production  from the West Panhandle  field is processed  through the
Company-owned  Fain natural gas processing  plant. In February 1997, the Company
initiated a project to add nitrogen  rejection  capabilities  at the Fain plant.
This project,  which was completed in mid-1998,  allows the Company to recover a
greater  percentage of the helium in the processed gas; increase NGL recoveries;
and upgrade residue quality improving marketing flexibility.

       During  1999,  the  Company  placed  35 new wells on  production  and has
another 17 wells in progress at December  31, 1999.  The Company  plans to drill
approximately 45 wells in 2000.

       Other domestic properties. In the Gulf Coast area, the Company is focused
on reserve and production growth through a balanced portfolio of development and
exploration activities.  To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its
domestic  exploration  efforts to this area,  as well as its  investment  in and
utilization of 3-D seismic  technology.  During 1999, the Company expended $39.2
million to drill nine  development and ten  exploratory  wells in the Gulf Coast
area.  The most  significant of these wells was the Company's  first  deep-water
Gulf of Mexico venture at Mississippi Canyon Block 305, the Aconcagua  prospect,
which was drilled to a depth of 14,000 feet.  Associated therewith,  the Company

                                       15


<PAGE>



announced a significant discovery during the first quarter of 1999, encountering
a  hydrocarbon-  bearing  section of over 200 gross  feet.  The Company has a 25
percent  working  interest  in the block.  An  appraisal  well on the  Aconcagua
prospect  was  spud  during  February  2000.  The  Company  spudded  its  second
deep-water well during the second quarter of 1999 at Garden Banks 515, which was
unsuccessful.  During the fourth  quarter of 1999,  the  Company  spud its third
deep-water  exploratory well on the Devil's Tower prospect in Mississippi Canyon
block 773.  The  Company  announced a discovery  on the Devil's  Tower  prospect
during  February  2000. The well was drilled to a total depth of 15,625 feet and
encountered a significant number of hydrocarbon-bearing sands. The Company has a
15.8 percent working  interest in the discovery.  An appraisal well is scheduled
to be spud on the Devil's Tower  prospect  during the second quarter of 2000. In
addition to the appraisal  wells on the  Aconcagua and Devil's Tower  prospects,
the Company plans to drill four to six Gulf Coast area exploratory  wells during
2000.

       International.  The Company's international operations are located in the
Tierra del Fuego and Neuquen Basin areas of Argentina; and the Chinchaga, Martin
Creek and Rycroft/Spirit  River areas of Canada.  Additionally,  the Company has
entered  into  agreements  to explore  for oil and gas  reserves  in the African
nations of South Africa and Gabon.  Approximately 16 percent and five percent of
the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina and Canada, respectively.

       Argentina.  The Company's  Argentine  properties are primarily located in
the Austral and Neuquen  basins.  The  Company's  share of Argentine  production
during 1999  averaged  22.8 MBOE's per day, or  approximately  16 percent of the
Company's equivalent production.  The production concession in the Austral basin
is  located  in Tierra  del  Fuego,  which is the  extreme  southern  portion of
Argentina,  approximately  1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires. Crude oil, natural
gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35
percent working  interest.  Production  increases are anticipated  from the area
through  exploitation  and  exploration and improving the oil and gas processing
facilities and infrastructure on the island. Currently, production is being sent
to the  mainland  through oil tankers and gas  pipelines  and  exported to Chile
through pipelines.

       The Company's  operated  production in Argentina is  concentrated  in the
Neuquen  Basin which is located  about 925 miles  southwest  of Buenos Aires and
just to the east of the Andes Mountains.  Crude oil and natural gas are produced
from the Loma Negra/NI Block,  the Dadin Block,  the Al Norte de la Dorsal Block
and the Neuquen  del Medio  Block in which the  Company has 100 percent  working
interests.  During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company  acquired 100 percent
working interests in certain producing  properties  located in the core areas of
Al Sur de la Dorsal and Estacion Fernandez Oro. Both properties have significant
exploitation  and exploration  potential and  infrastructure  synergies with the
Company's current operations.

       During 1999, the Company expended $75.1 million on Argentine  exploration
and development  activities and drilled 22 development  wells and 33 exploratory
wells in Argentina.  The Company plans to spend approximately $55 million on oil
and gas development and exploration opportunities in Argentina during 2000.

       Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily
in Alberta and British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production during 1999 averaged 13.5
MBOE's  per  day,  or  approximately  10  percent  of the  Company's  equivalent
production.  In the third quarter of 1999, the Company  completed the process of
divesting 68 non-core  Canadian oil and gas  properties  to focus efforts on its
core assets in  northeast  British  Columbia  and  northwest  Alberta.  The core
Canadian assets are geographically  concentrated,  predominantly shallow gas and
more than 90 percent operated by the Company in the following areas:  Chinchaga,
Martin Creek and  Rycroft/Spirit  River.  Following  the property  divestitures,
fourth quarter production averaged 7.6 MBOE's per day from the core properties.

       Production  from the Chinchaga areas is relatively dry gas from formation
depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area,  production is relatively
dry gas from  various  reservoirs  ranging  from 3,700 feet to 4,300  feet.  The
Rycroft/Spirit  River area produces  primarily oil and consists of four unitized
waterfloods  producing  from  reservoir  depths ranging from 4,400 feet to 5,000
feet.  In 1999,  recompletion  activity in this area  resulted in increased  gas
production from shallow reservoirs ranging from 4,000 feet to 4,300 feet.

       During 1999, the Company  expended $18.9 million on Canadian  exploration
and development  activities and drilled 34 development  wells and one successful
exploratory well primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas.  The Company

                                       16


<PAGE>



plans to drill  approximately  26  development  wells and one  exploratory  well
during 2000.  The Company  expects to  participate  in an additional  nine wells
operated by other  companies in the same areas.  The Company  plans to spend $35
million  on oil and gas  development  and  exploration  opportunities  in Canada
during 2000.

       Africa. The Company has entered into agreements to explore in the African
nations of South Africa and Gabon. The South African  agreements  covers over 13
million  acres along the  southern  coast of South  Africa,  generally  in water
depths less than 650 feet.  During 1998,  five wells were drilled by the Company
in South Africa,  of which two  discovered  reserves.  During 1999,  the Company
performed and analyzed seismic studies  necessary for the analysis,  ranking and
timing of prospects in South Africa and Gabon. In doing so, the Company incurred
$3.7 million of seismic  costs in South  Africa and Gabon  during  1999.  During
2000,  the  Company  plans to spend  approximately  $25  million on  exploration
opportunities  in  South  Africa  and  Gabon.  The  Company  expects  to spud an
appraisal well in the Sable field of South Africa during March 2000.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

       The following  tables set forth selected oil and gas  information for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented below should not be interpreted as indicative
of future results.

                                       17


<PAGE>



       Production,   Price  and  Cost  Data.  The  following  table  sets  forth
production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
<TABLE>
                       PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)

                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    1999                                     1998                                     1997
                    ---------------------------------------   --------------------------------------   ----------------------------
                     United                                  United                                   United
                     States   Argentina   Canada    Total    States    Argentina   Canada    Total    States    Argentina    Total
                    -------   ---------   ------   -------   -------   ---------   ------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
<S>                 <C>       <C>         <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
   Oil (MBbls)....   11,448      2,352     1,654    15,454    15,167      3,072     3,315    21,554    13,470        148     13,618
   NGLs (MBbls)...    8,714        217       306     9,237    10,160        228       281    10,669     4,267        -        4,267
   Gas (MMcf).....  106,094     34,477    17,886   158,457   137,741     26,801    19,371   183,913   104,868        -      104,868
   Total (MBOE)...   37,845      8,315     4,941    51,101    48,284      7,767     6,824    62,875    35,215        148     35,363
 Average daily
  production:
   Oil (Bbls).....   31,366      6,443     4,530    42,339    41,555      8,415     9,082    59,052    36,903        406     37,309
   NGLs (Bbls)....   23,875        594       839    25,308    27,835        626       770    29,231    11,691        -       11,691
   Gas (Mcf)......  290,670     94,457    49,003   434,130   377,373     73,427    53,072   503,872   287,309        -      287,309
   Total (BOE)....  103,686     22,780    13,536   140,002   132,285     21,279    18,697   172,261    96,479        406     96,885
 Average prices:
   Oil (per Bbl)..  $ 15.03    $ 18.41   $ 13.28   $ 15.36   $ 13.96    $ 11.00   $ 10.96   $ 13.08   $ 18.50    $ 19.68    $ 18.51
   NGLs (per Bbl).  $ 11.61    $ 11.30   $ 12.62   $ 11.64   $  8.86    $  9.83   $  9.54   $  8.90   $ 12.59    $   -      $ 12.59
   Gas (per Mcf)..  $  2.17    $  1.10   $  1.82   $  1.90   $  2.01    $  1.09   $  1.45   $  1.82   $  2.20    $   -      $  2.20
   Revenue (per BOE)$ 13.28    $ 10.07   $ 11.81   $ 12.62   $ 11.99    $  8.40   $  9.83   $ 11.32   $ 15.16    $ 19.68    $ 15.18
 Average costs:
  Production costs
  (per BOE):
   Lease operating
    expense.......  $  2.71    $  2.04   $  3.02   $  2.63   $  3.04    $  2.57   $  3.56   $  3.04   $  3.01    $  5.47    $  3.02
   Production taxes.    .49        .16       -         .39       .50        .15       -         .40       .81        .19        .81
   Workover.......      .09        -         .34       .10       .14        -         .10       .12       .25        -          .25
                     ------     ------    ------    ------    ------     ------    ------    ------    ------     ------    ------
   Total.........   $  3.29    $  2.20   $  3.36   $  3.12   $  3.68    $  2.72   $  3.66   $  3.56   $  4.07    $  5.66    $  4.08
 Depletion expense
   (per BOE).....   $  4.06    $  4.68   $  5.18   $  4.27   $  4.96    $  5.42   $  5.95   $  5.13   $  5.77    $  8.70    $  5.78
- ---------------
</TABLE>
(a)  These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.

                                       18


<PAGE>



     Productive  Wells.  The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997.
<TABLE>
                               PRODUCTIVE WELLS(a)

                                       Gross Productive Wells       Net Productive Wells
                                      -------------------------   -------------------------
                                       Oil      Gas      Total     Oil      Gas      Total
                                      ------   ------   -------   ------   ------   -------
<S>                                   <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>
Year ended December 31, 1999:
   United States...................    3,835    2,244     6,079    2,558    1,736     4,294
   Argentina.......................      514      199       713      376      142       518
   Canada..........................      157      196       353       66      135       201
                                      ------   ------   -------   ------   ------   -------
      Total........................    4,506    2,639     7,145    3,000    2,013     5,013
                                      ======   ======   =======   ======   ======   =======
Year ended December 31, 1998:
   United States...................    6,280    4,130    10,410    3,578    2,443     6,021
   Argentina.......................      443      158       601      298      103       401
   Canada..........................    1,719      454     2,173      715      241       956
                                      ------   ------   -------   ------   ------   -------
      Total........................    8,442    4,742    13,184    4,591    2,787     7,378
                                      ======   ======   =======   ======   ======   =======
Year ended December 31, 1997:
   United States...................    6,075    3,931    10,006    3,399    2,326     5,725
   Argentina.......................      342      122       464      228       84       312
   Canada..........................    1,666      428     2,094      667      202       869
                                      ------   ------   -------   ------   ------   -------
      Total........................    8,083    4,481    12,564    4,294    2,612     6,906
                                      ======   ======   =======   ======   ======   =======
- ---------------
</TABLE>
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December  31, 1999,  the Company  owned  interests  in 24 wells  containing
     multiple completions.

      Leasehold  Acreage.  The following table sets forth  information about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 1999.

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>

                                       Developed Acreage        Undeveloped Acreage
                                    -----------------------   ------------------------   Royalty
                                    Gross Acres   Net Acres   Gross Acres    Net Acres   Acreage
                                    -----------   ---------   -----------   ----------   --------
<S>                                 <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 1999:
  United States..................     1,063,660     686,571       727,417      546,192    303,598
  Argentina......................       676,000     278,000     1,350,000      952,000        -
  Canada.........................       135,000      88,000       701,000      575,000        -
  South Africa and Gabon.........           -           -      13,813,937   13,513,937        -
                                    -----------   ---------   -----------   ----------   --------
  Total..........................     1,874,660   1,052,571    16,592,354   15,587,129    303,598
                                    ===========   =========   ===========   ==========   ========
</TABLE>
       Drilling  Activities.  The following table sets forth the number of gross
and net  productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled and completed  during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997.
This information should not be considered indicative of future performance,  nor
should it be assumed  that there is  necessarily  any  correlation  between  the
number  of  productive  wells  drilled  and the oil and gas  reserves  generated
thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of
dry wells.

                                       19


<PAGE>



                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES

                                   Gross Wells                Net Wells
                            ------------------------   ------------------------
                             Year Ended December 31,    Year Ended December 31,
                            ------------------------   ------------------------
                             1999     1998     1997     1999     1998     1997
                            ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
United States:
 Productive wells:
  Development............      199     385      483     131.3    285.9    341.2
  Exploratory............        7      18       38       4.6     13.4     23.8
 Dry holes:
  Development............        1      13       18        .8      8.8      8.8
  Exploratory............        7       5       46       2.7      3.0     30.3
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
                               214     421      585     139.4    311.1    404.1
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
Argentina:
 Productive wells:
  Development............       19      41        4      16.6     39.1       .6
  Exploratory............       25      11        1      24.1     10.6       .1
 Dry holes:
  Development............        3       5      -         3.0      5.0      -
  Exploratory............        8      11        1       6.5      9.7       .1
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
                                55      68        6      50.2     64.4       .8
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
Canada:
 Productive wells:
  Development............       34      54      -        18.8     37.1      -
  Exploratory............      -        10      -         -        7.2      -
 Dry holes:
  Development............      -         6      -         -        5.4      -
  Exploratory............        1       4      -          .3      3.0      -
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
                                35      74      -        19.1     52.7      -
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
Other foreign:
 Productive wells:
  Development............      -       -        -         -        -        -
  Exploratory............      -         2      -         -         .7      -
 Dry holes:
  Development............      -       -        -         -         -       -
  Exploratory............      -         3        1       -        1.7       .4
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
                               -         5        1       -        2.4       .4
                            ------   -----    -----    ------   ------   ------
    Total................      304     568      592     208.7    430.6    405.3
                            ======   =====    =====    ======   ======   ======

Success ratio(a).........      93%     92%      89%       94%      92%      90%
- ---------------

(a)  Represents those wells that were successfully completed as productive
     wells.

           The following table sets forth  information about the Company's wells
that were in progress at December 31, 1999.

                                   Gross Wells    Net Wells
                                   -----------    ---------
United States:
  Development....................        45           26.9
  Exploratory....................         1             .1
                                     ------         ------
                                         46           27.0
                                     ------         ------
Argentina:
  Development....................         2            2.0
  Exploratory....................         4            3.6
                                     ------         ------
                                          6            5.6
                                     ------         ------
Canada:
  Development....................         3            2.6
  Exploratory....................       -              -
                                     ------         ------
                                          3            2.6
                                     ------         ------
     Total.......................        55           35.2
                                     ======         ======

                                       20


<PAGE>



ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       The Company is party to various  legal  proceedings,  which are described
under "Legal  actions" in Note G of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  The claims for
damages  from such other  legal  actions  are not in excess of 10 percent of the
Company's  current  assets and the Company  believes none of these actions to be
material.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       The  Company  did not submit any  matters to a vote of  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 1999.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

       The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock  Exchange  under the symbol "PXD".  The following
table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  the high and low sales prices for
the Company's common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite
transactions, and the amount of dividends paid.

                                                                    Dividends
                                            High        Low      Paid per share
                                         ---------   ---------   --------------
1999

   Fourth quarter....................    $11 1/2     $ 7  5/8          -
   Third quarter.....................    $12 13/16   $ 9  3/8          -
   Second quarter....................    $13 3/16    $ 7  1/16         -
   First quarter.....................    $  9 3/4    $ 5               -
1998

   Fourth quarter....................    $16         $ 7  3/4          -
   Third quarter.....................    $24 11/16   $13 1/4          $.05
   Second quarter....................    $25 15/16   $21 3/8            -
   First quarter.....................    $30         $20 5/8          $.05

       On February  28, 2000,  the last  reported  sales price of the  Company's
common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions,
was $7-11/16 per share.

       As of  February  28,  2000,  the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 33,100 holders of record.

       The Company's Board of Directors elected to discontinue cash dividends in
1999 and future years.

                                       21


<PAGE>



ITEM 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

      The following selected consolidated  financial data for the Company should
be read in  conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"  and the Company's  Consolidated
Financial Statements,  related notes and other financial information included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ----------------------------------------------------
                                                   1999       1998      1997(a)     1996        1995
                                                 --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
                                                          (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues:
    Oil and gas..............................    $  644.6   $  711.5   $  536.8   $  396.9   $  375.7
    Natural gas processing...................         -          -          -         23.8       33.2
    Gas marketing............................         -          -          -          -         76.8
    Interest and other (b)...................        89.7       10.4        4.3       17.5       11.4
    Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net       (24.2)       (.4)       4.9       97.1       16.6
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
                                                    710.1      721.5      546.0      535.3      513.7
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production...................       159.5      223.5      144.2      110.3      130.9
    Natural gas processing...................         -          -          -         12.5       25.9
    Gas marketing............................         -          -          -          -         75.7
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization.       236.1      337.3      212.4      112.1      159.1
    Impairment of properties and facilities..        17.9      459.5    1,356.4        -        130.5
    Exploration and abandonments.............        66.0      121.9       77.2       23.0       27.5
    General and administrative...............        40.2       73.0       48.8       28.4       37.4
    Reorganization...........................         8.5       33.2        -          -          -
    Interest.................................       170.3      164.3       77.5       46.2       65.4
    Other (c)................................        34.7       39.6        7.1        2.5       11.3
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
                                                    733.2    1,452.3    1,923.6      335.0      663.7
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
  Income (loss) before income taxes and
    extraordinary item.......................       (23.1)    (730.8)   1,377.6)     200.3     (150.0)
  Income tax benefit (provision).............          .6      (15.6)     500.3      (60.1)      45.9
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item....       (22.5)    (746.4)    (877.3)     140.2     (104.1)
  Extraordinary item.........................         -          -        (13.4)       -          4.3
                                                  -------    -------    -------    -------    -------
  Net income (loss)..........................    $  (22.5)  $ (746.4)  $ (890.7)  $  140.2   $  (99.8)
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item
   per share:
      Basic..................................    $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $ (16.88)  $   3.95   $  (2.96)
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
      Diluted................................    $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $ (16.88)  $   3.47   $  (2.96)
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Net income (loss) per share:

    Basic....................................    $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $ (17.14)  $   3.95   $  (2.84)
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
    Diluted..................................    $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $ (17.14)  $   3.47   $  (2.84)
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Dividends per share .......................    $    -     $    .10   $    .10   $    .10   $    .10
                                                  =======    =======    =======    =======    =======
  Weighted average shares outstanding........       100.3      100.1       52.0       35.5       35.1

Statement of Cash Flows Data:
  Cash flows from operating activities.......    $  255.2   $  314.1   $  228.2   $  230.1   $  156.6
  Cash flows from investing activities.......    $  199.0   $ (517.0)  $ (341.2)  $   13.7   $  (52.6)
  Cash flows from financing activities.......    $ (479.1)  $  190.9   $  166.0   $ (245.4)  $ (107.9)

Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Working capital (deficit) (d)..............    $  (13.7)  $ (324.8)  $   46.6   $   26.1   $   31.5
  Property, plant and equipment, net.........    $2,503.0   $3,034.1   $3,515.8   $1,040.4   $1,121.7
  Total assets...............................    $2,929.5   $3,481.3   $4,153.0   $1,199.9   $1,319.2
  Long-term obligations......................    $1,914.5   $2,101.2   $2,124.0   $  329.0   $  603.2
  Preferred stock of subsidiary..............    $    -     $    -     $    -     $  188.8   $  188.8
  Total stockholders' equity.................    $  774.6   $  789.1   $1,548.8   $  530.3   $  411.0
</TABLE>
- ---------------

(a)  Includes  amounts relating to the acquisition of Mesa and Chauvco in August
     and December 1997, respectively.

(b)  1999  includes  $41.3  million of option  fees and $30.2  million of income
     associated  with an excise tax refund (see Note J of Notes to  Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary Data").

(c)  1999 and 1998 include  non-cash  mark-to-market  charges for changes in the
     fair values of non-hedge  financial  instruments of $27.0 million and $21.2
     million, respectively (see Notes C and H of Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements  included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary
     Data").

(d)  The 1998  working  capital  deficit  includes  $306.5  million  of  current
     maturities of long-term debt (see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements  included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary
     Data").

                                       22


<PAGE>



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1999 Performance

       The Company's  performance  during 1999 was  highlighted  by  significant
improvements  in oil, NGL and natural gas commodity  prices;  by its  successful
execution of operating  measures  focused on the  enhancement of core assets and
the  divestiture  of  non-core  assets,  the  continuation  of cost  containment
measures implemented during 1998 and the reduction of outstanding  indebtedness,
and, by  favorable  test results from the  Company's  deep-water  Gulf of Mexico
exploration drilling program.

       During  1999,  the Company  reduced  its capital  expended on oil and gas
property  additions to $179.7 million,  as compared to 1998 and 1997 oil and gas
property  expenditures of $507.3 million and $428.6 million,  respectively  (see
"Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity", below). The Company also
realized  $420.5  million of proceeds from the  divestiture  of non-core  United
States and Canadian oil and gas  properties,  gas plants and other assets during
1999  (see  "Asset  Divestitures",  below  and Note K of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data").  The net cash proceeds from the asset  divestitures were used,  together
with  net  cash  provided  from  operating  activities,  to  reduce  outstanding
indebtedness by $429.3 million during 1999 (see "Liquidity", below and Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data").

       The Company reported a net loss of $22.5 million ($.22 per share) for the
year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to net losses of $746.4 million ($7.46
per share) and $890.7  million  ($17.14 per share) for the years ended  December
31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  In  comparison to 1998,  the  Company's  1999
results were positively  impacted by improved  commodity prices, a $79.2 million
increase in interest and other income, the results of cost containment measures,
reductions in outstanding  indebtedness and significant reductions in provisions
for the impairment of oil and gas properties;  and, were negatively  impacted by
declines in production volumes due to asset divestitures,  net losses recognized
on  asset  divestitures  and  non-cash   mark-to-market  charges  recognized  on
non-hedge derivative contracts.

       Commodity prices and production volumes.  During 1999, crude oil, NGL and
natural gas prices increased substantially from their depressed 1998 levels. The
average prices realized by the Company during 1999, including the effects of oil
and gas price  hedges,  were $15.36 per Bbl of oil,  $11.64 per Bbl of NGL's and
$1.90 per Mcf of natural  gas; as compared to average  realized  prices for oil,
NGL's  and  natural  gas of  $13.08  per Bbl,  $8.90  per Bbl and $1.82 per Mcf,
respectively,  during 1998;  and,  $18.51 per Bbl,  $12.59 per Bbl and $2.20 per
Mcf, respectively, during 1997. The effects of price volatility on the Company's
results of operations and net cash generated by operating activities during 1999
and 1998 were  mitigated  by the results of oil and gas price hedges and changes
in  production  volumes.  Primarily  as a  result  of  asset  divestitures,  the
Company's  1999 total  production of oil, NGL and natural gas declined to 51,101
MBOE,  as compared to total  production  of 62,875 MBOE and 35,363 MBOE,  during
1998 and 1997, respectively.

       Asset  divestitures.  During 1999,  1998 and 1997,  the  Company's  asset
divestitures  generated  net  proceeds to the Company of $420.5  million,  $21.9
million and $115.7  million,  respectively,  which resulted in 1999 and 1998 net
losses of $24.2 million and $445 thousand,  respectively, and a 1997 net gain of
$5.0 million.  The Company's 1999 asset  divestitures were comprised of non-core
United States and Canadian oil and gas properties,  gas plants and other assets.
The net cash proceeds from the 1999 asset  divestitures  were used to reduce the
Company's  outstanding  indebtedness,  while the net cash proceeds from the 1998
and 1997 asset  divestitures  were used to provide  funding for a portion of the
Company's capital  expenditures.  See Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and
"Results  of  Operations",  below,  for  additional  information  regarding  the
Company's asset divestitures.

       Cost containment.  During 1999 and 1998, the Company executed a number of
cost containment measures.  Such measures included the centralization of certain
operating and  administrative  functions in Irving,  Texas that were  previously
based in Midland,  Texas, the closings of its regional offices in Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma,  Corpus Christi,  Texas  and Houston,  Texas;  the  termination of 350

                                       23


<PAGE>



employees, including several officer positions; and reductions in salaries among
senior officers.  Those  initiatives  increased  operational and  administrative
efficiencies by reducing  production costs and general and administrative  costs
per BOE  during  1999 to $3.12 and $.79,  respectively,  from  $3.56 and  $1.16,
respectively,  during 1998.  The Company  intends to sustain  these  initiatives
during  2000 and the  foreseeable  future.  See Note M of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statement included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary
Data"  for  specific   discussions  and  disclosures   regarding  the  Company's
reorganization provisions.

       Net cash provided by operating activities. Net cash provided by operating
activities  was $255.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared
to $314.1  million for the year ended  December 31, 1998 and $228.2  million for
the year ended December 31, 1997. The decrease in net cash provided by operating
activities during 1999 as compared to 1998 is primarily attributable to declines
in production  volumes,  increases in operating  receivables  and  repayments of
operating  payables,  partially  offset by increases in oil, NGL and natural gas
commodity prices and reductions in operating costs. During 1998, additional cash
flow was generated due to the  increased  production  realized from the acquired
Mesa and Chauvco properties,  offset partially by declining commodity prices and
increased costs and expenses.

       Total  debt and book  capitalization.  Total  debt  was  reduced  to $1.7
billion as of December 31,  1999,  as compared to total debt of $2.2 billion and
$1.9 billion,  respectively,  at December 31, 1998 and 1997. The Company strives
to maintain its outstanding indebtedness at a moderate level in order to provide
sufficient financial flexibility to react to future opportunities. The Company's
total book  capitalization at December 31, 1999 was $2.5 billion,  consisting of
total  debt  of  $1.7   billion  and   stockholders'   equity  of  $.8  billion.
Consequently, the Company's debt to total capitalization decreased to 69 percent
at December 31, 1999 from 73 percent at December 31, 1998.

       Exploration  and drilling  results.  During 1999,  the Company  completed
drilling  304 gross  wells (209 net  wells),  of which 284 gross  wells (195 net
wells) were successfully placed on production, representing a 93 percent success
rate. See "Item 2. Properties" for information  regarding the Company's  reserve
replacement, finding costs, property descriptions and drilling activities.

       The Company's 1999 exploratory  drilling was focused in the United States
Gulf of Mexico,  Argentina and Canada.  The Company completed  drilling 48 gross
exploratory  wells (38 net wells)  during  1999,  of which 32 gross  exploratory
wells (29 net wells)  successfully  discovered proved oil, NGL and gas reserves,
representing a 67 percent success rate. The Company's most significant discovery
during  1999 was its first  deep-water  Gulf of Mexico  venture  at  Mississippi
Canyon Block 305, the Aconcagua  prospect,  that was drilled to a total depth of
14,000  feet and  encountered  a  hydrocarbon-bearing  section of over 200 gross
feet. The Company has a 25 percent  working  interest in the block. An appraisal
well on the  Aconcagua  prospect  was spud  during  February  2000.  The Company
spudded its second  deep-water  Gulf of Mexico well during the second quarter of
1999,  which was  unsuccessful.  During the fourth  quarter of 1999, the Company
spud its third  deep-water  exploratory  well on the Devil's  Tower  prospect in
Mississippi  Canyon block 773. The Company  announced a discovery on the Devil's
Tower  prospect  during  February 2000. The well was drilled to a total depth of
15,625 feet and encountered a significant number of  hydrocarbon-bearing  sands.
The Company has a 15.8 percent working  interest in the discovery.  An appraisal
well is scheduled  to be spud on the Devil's  Tower  prospect  during the second
quarter of 2000. In addition to the appraisal wells on the Aconcagua and Devil's
Tower  prospects,  the  Company  plans to  drill  four to six  Gulf  Coast  area
exploratory wells during 2000.

       The Company also plans to drill  exploratory  wells in Argentina,  Canada
and South  Africa  during  2000.  During  1999,  the  Company  drilled  33 gross
exploratory  wells (31 net wells) in Argentina,  with a 76 percent success rate.
In South Africa,  the Company has scheduled three  exploratory  wells to be spud
during  2000,  of which  one is an  appraisal  well on the  Company's  Sable oil
discovery.

       See "Results of Operations",  below, for more in-depth discussions of the
Company's oil and gas producing activities,  including discussions pertaining to
oil and gas production volumes, prices, hedging activities,  costs and expenses,
capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity.

                                       24


<PAGE>



2000 Outlook

       Commodity  prices.  The  Company's  results of  operations  and financial
condition in 2000 are expected to be significantly  affected by the rising trend
in  commodity  prices that has  occurred as a result of decreases in oil and gas
supplies relative to demand for those commodities. The most significant of those
factors has been the decrease in crude oil exports during 1999 by members of the
Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  ("OPEC")  and other crude oil
exporting  nations.  During 2000,  the  favorable  commodity  price  environment
presently  impacting the oil and gas industry may continue;  however the Company
is continuing  its debt reduction and cost  containment  measures to protect its
net asset values from a return to a less favorable  commodity price environment.
If OPEC and the other crude oil  exporting  nations  were to increase  crude oil
supplies  relative  to demand,  crude oil prices  could  again begin to decline,
which  could have a  significant  negative  impact on the  Company's  results of
operations  and net cash  provided or used by  operating  activities,  and could
result in additional  impairment of the carrying values of the Company's oil and
gas properties and deferred tax assets.

       Capital  expenditures.  During 2000,  the Company  plans to limit capital
expended for oil and gas property  additions to approximately  $250 million,  of
which  approximately $50 million has been budgeted for exploration  expenditures
and  $200  million  has  been  budgeted  for  exploitation  projects.  Pioneer's
long-lived reserves and dependable  production in the Hugoton and West Panhandle
gas fields and Spraberry oil field allow the Company the  flexibility  necessary
to  make   significant   changes  in  its  capital   allocation   plans  without
significantly  impacting  near  term  production  volumes.  The  Company's  2000
exploitation budget is allocated  approximately 55 percent to the United States,
25 percent to Argentina and 20 percent to Canada.  Exploration  drilling will be
concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico,  the onshore Gulf Coast area,  Argentina and
South Africa. The Company has budgeted exploratory expenditures of approximately
$25 million each for the United States Gulf Coast area and  international  areas
during 2000.  During 2000,  the Company will  continue to use the excess of cash
provided by  operating  activities  over  capital  expenditures  for oil and gas
producing activities to reduce outstanding indebtedness.

Results of Operations

       Oil and gas revenues. Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $644.6
million in 1999, $711.5 million in 1998 and $536.8 million in 1997, representing
a nine percent decrease from 1998 to 1999 and a 33 percent increase from 1997 to
1998.  The  revenue  decrease  from 1998 to 1999 is  reflective  of a 19 percent
decrease in BOE production,  partially  offset by price increases of 17 percent,
31 percent and four  percent,  respectively,  for oil,  NGL and natural gas. The
revenue increase from 1997 to 1998 is reflective of a 78 percent increase in BOE
production,  offset by a 29 percent, 29 percent and 17 percent decline in prices
for oil, NGLs and gas, respectively, from 1997 to 1998.

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                   1999       1998       1997
                                                 --------   --------   --------

 Total production:
   Oil (MBbls)................................     15,454     21,554     13,618
   NGLs (MBbls)...............................      9,237     10,669      4,267
   Gas (MMcf).................................    158,457    183,913    104,868
   Total (MBOE)...............................     51,101     62,875     35,363
 Average daily production:
   Oil (Bbls).................................     42,339     59,052     37,309
   NGLs (Bbls)................................     25,308     29,231     11,691
   Gas (Mcf)..................................    434,130    503,872    287,309
 Average prices:
   Oil (per Bbl)..............................   $  15.36   $  13.08   $  18.51
   NGL (per Bbl)..............................   $  11.64   $   8.90   $  12.59
   Gas (per Mcf)..............................   $   1.90   $   1.82   $   2.20
 Percentage annual price increase (decrease):
   Oil........................................         17        (29)        (7)
   NGL........................................         31        (29)       N/A
   Gas........................................          4        (17)        (3)

       On a BOE basis,  production  declined  by 19  percent  for the year ended
December  31,  1999,  as  compared  to the same  period in 1998.  The decline in
production was primarily  attributable to asset divestitures,  but also reflects

                                       25


<PAGE>



the deferral of oil well  completions  at the end of 1998 and  beginning of 1999
until oil prices recovered,  and normal well production declines.  Excluding the
production associated with 1999 and 1998 asset divestitures, production declined
by nine percent during the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to the same
period in 1998.

       Production  volumes for 1998  increased by 78 percent from 35,363 MBOE to
62,875 MBOE. This increase was primarily reflective of a full year of production
realized  from the  properties  acquired  from  Mesa and  Chauvco,  but also was
impacted favorably by the Company's exploration and exploitation  projects.  The
properties  acquired  from  Mesa  and  Chauvco  contributed  97  percent  of the
production  growth from 1997 to 1998.  Excluding the production  associated with
the Mesa and Chauvco  properties and other properties sold during 1998 and 1997,
production  increased  nine percent  during 1998,  as compared to 1997, on a BOE
basis.

       Hedging activities

       The oil and gas prices that the  Company  reports are based on the market
price  received  for the  commodities  adjusted by the results of the  Company's
hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity derivative contracts (swaps,
futures  and  options)  in order to (i) reduce the effect of the  volatility  of
price changes on the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support
the Company's annual capital  budgeting and expenditure  plans and (iii) lock in
prices to protect the economics related to certain capital projects.

       Crude oil. All material  purchase  contracts  governing the Company's oil
production  are tied directly or  indirectly  to NYMEX  prices.  The average oil
price per Bbl that the Company  reports  includes  the  effects of oil  quality,
gathering  and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil hedges.  The
Company's  average  realized  prices for  physical  oil sales  (excluding  hedge
results) for the years ended  December  31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 were $16.23 per
Bbl,  $11.93  per Bbl and $19.09  per Bbl,  respectively.  During the year ended
December  31,  1999,  the Company  recorded a $13.4  million net decrease to oil
revenues  as a result  of its oil  price  hedges.  The  Company  recorded  a net
increase to oil revenues of $24.8  million and a net decrease to oil revenues of
$7.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively,  as a
result of its oil price hedges.

       Natural gas liquids. During 1999 and 1998, the Company did not enter into
natural gas liquids price hedge  contracts.  During 1997, the Company employed a
policy of hedging natural gas liquids based on actual product prices in order to
mitigate some of the volatility  associated  with NYMEX  pricing.  The Company's
average  realized prices for physical natural gas liquids sales (excluding hedge
results) for the years ended  December  31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 were $11.64 per
Bbl,  $8.90 per Bbl and $12.61 per Bbl,  respectively.  During 1997, the Company
recorded a net decrease to natural gas liquids revenue of $77,600 as a result of
natural gas liquids hedges.

       Natural gas. The Company employs a policy of hedging gas production based
on the index price upon which the gas is actually  sold in order to mitigate the
basis risk between NYMEX prices and actual index  prices.  The average gas price
per Mcf that the Company reports includes the effects of Btu content,  gathering
and transportation costs, gas processing and shrinkage and the net effect of the
gas  hedges.  The  Company's  average  realized  prices for  physical  gas sales
(excluding  hedge results) for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997
were $1.84 per Mcf, $1.80 per Mcf and $2.41 per Mcf, respectively.  For the year
ended December 31, 1999, the Company  recorded a net increase to gas revenues of
$9.4  million as a result of its gas price  hedges.  The Company  recorded a net
increase to gas revenues of $3.6 million and a net decrease of $21.9 million for
the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, as a result of its gas
price hedges.

       See Note H of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information concerning
the Company's  open hedge  positions at December 31, 1999 and the related prices
to be realized.

       Interest  and other  revenue.  The Company  recorded  interest  and other
income  totaling  $89.7  million,  $10.5 million and $4.3 during 1999,  1998 and
1997, respectively. The significant increase in interest and other income during
1999 is  primarily  attributable  to  non-recurring  option  fees and excise tax
refunds  recognized by the Company  during 1999. In December  1998,  the Company
announced  the sale of an exclusive and  irrevocable  option to a third party to
purchase  certain oil and gas  properties  and other assets of the  Company.  In
consideration  for the  option,  the third  party  paid an  option  fee of $41.3
million  to the  Company,  consisting  of $29.3  million  of cash and the  third
party's common  stock that  was then valued at $12.0 million.  The third party's

                                       26


<PAGE>



option lapsed by its terms during the first  quarter of 1999.  During the second
quarter of 1999, the Company entered into a purchase and sale agreement with the
third party that was not  completed as  specified by the terms of the  agreement
and, as a result thereof,  the Company received liquidated damages of additional
shares of the third party's common stock valued at $.5 million. During 1999, the
Company   recognized  other  revenue  of  $41.8  million  as  a  result  of  the
transactions  with the third party.  The Company also  received a $30.2  million
refund of excise taxes  during  1999.  Due to the  uncertainty  surrounding  the
collectability  of this  refund,  the Company  was not  carrying it as an asset.
Accordingly, the Company recognized the tax refund as other revenue during 1999.

       Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.  During 1998, the Company announced
measures  to increase  its  financial  flexibility  and to  safeguard  net asset
values.  Those measures included the enactment of an operating  strategy focused
on the  enhancement  of core  assets and the  divestiture  of  non-core  assets,
continuation  of cost  containment  measures and the  reduction  of  outstanding
indebtedness.  During 1999, the Company completed the asset divestiture phase of
the measures referred to above. As a result, the Company realized net divestment
proceeds from asset  divestitures  of $420.5 million during 1999 and recorded an
associated  net loss on  disposition  of assets of $24.2  million.  The net cash
proceeds  from the 1999  asset  divestitures  were  used to  reduce  outstanding
indebtedness (see Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Production  costs.  Total  production costs per BOE decreased in 1999 and
1998 by  approximately  12 percent  and 13  percent,  respectively.  The primary
component of production costs, lease operating  expense,  declined by 13 percent
in 1999 and remained constant in 1998. Workover costs declined by 20 percent and
52 percent,  respectively,  in 1999 and 1998. These costs represent the majority
of the oil and gas  property  operating  expenses  over  which the  Company  has
control and the costs on which the Company  has focused its  reduction  efforts.
Production taxes,  which are correlated with volumes and prices,  declined three
percent in 1999 and 51  percent  in 1998,  reflecting  the  declines  in volumes
during 1999 and  commodity  prices during 1998.  The operating  margins from the
Company's  gas plants (i.e.,  third party  processing  revenues less  processing
costs and expenses) are included in oil and gas production  costs,  specifically
lease operating expense,  which resulted in decreases in lease operating expense
per BOE during 1999 and 1997 of $.11 and $.07, respectively,  and an increase in
lease  operating  expense per BOE of $.05 during 1998.  The  reductions in lease
operating  expense  during  the  years  ended  December  31,  1999  and 1998 are
primarily due to the cost containment  measures  initiated by the Company during
1998, and to the divestment of high operating cost  properties  during 1999 (see
"1999  Performance",  above,  and  Note K of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").

                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ---------------------------
                                                    1999      1998      1997
                                                  -------   -------   -------
                                                           (per BOE)

     Lease operating expense...................   $  2.63   $  3.04   $  3.02
     Production taxes..........................       .39       .40       .81
     Workover costs............................       .10       .12       .25
                                                   ------    ------    ------
       Total production costs..................   $  3.12   $  3.56   $  4.08
                                                   ======    ======    ======

       Depletion expense.  Depletion expense per BOE decreased 17 percent during
1999 (to $4.27 in 1999 from $5.13 in 1998) and 11 percent in 1998 (from $5.78 in
1997). The decrease in 1999 depletion expense per BOE is primarily  attributable
to the impact on proved  reserves of improving  commodity  price outlooks and to
the  impairment of the per BOE carrying  values of the Company's  proved oil and
gas  properties  during the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997. The decrease
in 1998  depletion  expense per BOE was primarily due to the 1997  impairment of
the per BOE carrying values of the Company's  proved oil and gas properties (see
"Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" below).

       Impairment of oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its oil and gas
producing properties for impairment whenever events or circumstances  indicate a
decline in the  recoverability of the carrying value of the Company's assets may
have  occurred.  Declining  commodity  prices  in 1998 and 1997,  the  Company's
outlook for future  commodity  prices and 1998  performance  issues  relative to
certain oil and gas  properties,  prompted  impairment  reviews.  As a result of
these reviews,  the Company  recognized  non-cash  charges of $312.2 million and
$1.4 billion in 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  related to its proved oil and gas
properties.

                                       27


<PAGE>




       The Company  periodically  assesses its unproved  properties to determine
whether  they have been  impaired.  An unproved  property may be impaired if the
Company does not intend to drill the prospect as a result of downward  revisions
to potential  reserves,  if the results of exploration or the Company's  outlook
for  future  commodity  prices  indicate  that the  potential  reserves  are not
sufficient to generate net cash flows to recover the investment  required by the
project,  or if the  Company  intends  to sell the  property  for less  than its
carrying value. The Company has assessed its unproved oil and gas properties for
impairment  and,  during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,  recognized
non-cash  impairment charges of $17.9 million and $147.3 million,  respectively,
to reduce the carrying value of its unproved oil and gas properties.

       Neither the  longevity  nor the extent of the current trend of increasing
commodity  prices can be assessed with any degree of certainty.  A resumption of
the 1998 trend towards  declining  commodity  prices, or other relevant factors,
could  result in further  impairment  provisions  to the  carrying  value of the
Company's  proved and unproved  properties,  which could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. See Notes
B and L of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  and
disclosures   regarding  the  Company's   accounting   policies  and  attributes
pertaining to asset impairments.

      Exploration and abandonments/geological and geophysical costs. Exploration
and  abandonments/geological and geophysical costs totaled $66.0 million, $121.9
million and $77.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.  The  following  table sets forth the  components of the Company's
1999,  1998 and 1997  exploration  and  abandonments/geological  and geophysical
costs:
                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                               -------------------------------
                                                 1999        1998       1997
                                               --------   ---------   --------
                                                       (in thousands)
Exploratory dry holes:
 United States.............................    $ 15,591   $  15,737   $ 27,183
 Argentina.................................       3,441       4,426        252
 Canada....................................         978       1,949        -
 Other foreign.............................        (275)      9,486      5,442
Geological and geophysical costs:
 United States.............................      17,207      42,755     37,987
 Argentina.................................       3,399       9,999      1,570
 Canada....................................         315      14,244        -
 Other foreign.............................       7,498       3,851        -
Leasehold abandonments and other...........      17,820      19,411      4,726
                                                -------    --------    -------
                                               $ 65,974   $ 121,858   $ 77,160
                                                =======    ========    =======

       Approximately  31 percent of the Company's 1999  exploration/exploitation
capital was spent on exploratory  projects as compared to 30 percent in 1998 and
28  percent  in 1997.  The  decrease  in 1999  exploratory  costs  is  primarily
attributable to the Company's  curtailed 1999 capital  program,  as evidenced by
reductions  in all  categories  of  exploration,  abandonments,  geological  and
geophysical  costs as compared to 1998. The increase in 1998  exploratory  costs
was primarily due to the initial  expenditures made to explore the Argentine and
Canadian properties acquired from Chauvco and the Company's  exploration program
in South Africa.  The Company  currently  anticipates  that its 2000 exploration
efforts  will be  concentrated  in the Gulf of Mexico,  onshore Gulf Coast area,
Argentina and South Africa.

         Interest  and  administrative   expenses.   Interest  and  general  and
administrative  expenses were $170.3  million and $40.2  million,  respectively,
during  1999,  as compared to $164.3  million and $73.0  million,  respectively,
during 1998, and $77.5 million and $48.8 million, respectively,  during 1997. On
a per BOE basis, interest and general and administrative expenses were $3.33 and
$.79, respectively,  during 1999, as compared to $2.61 and $1.16,  respectively,
during 1998,  and $2.19 and $1.38,  respectively,  during 1997.  The increase in
interest  expense during 1999 is due to the higher debt levels carried over from
1998.  Interest  expense is expected to decline in 2000 from the expense  levels
incurred  during 1999 and 1998.  The decline in  administrative  expense  during
1999, and the anticipated  decline in interest expense during 2000, are a direct
result of the financial measures enacted to contain costs and reduce outstanding
indebtedness. The increases in total interest and administrative expenses during
1998 were due to the Company having incurred a full year of interest on the debt

                                       28


<PAGE>



incurred  as a  result  of the  Mesa and  Chauvco  acquisitions  and to fund the
capital   expenditures   of  1998,   and  to  administer   the  larger   Company
infrastructure  immediately  after the Mesa and Chauvco  acquisitions and before
the effects of the reorganization measures enacted in 1998 could be realized. On
a per BOE basis,  interest  expense  increased in 1999, after having declined in
1998,  primarily  due to  production  variances  associated  with the 1999 asset
divestitures  and to the postponement of oil well completions at the end of 1998
due to low oil commodity prices. The decline in per BOE  administrative  expense
is due to the  reorganization  measures  initiated  by the Company  during 1998.
Those  reorganization  measures included the centralization in Irving,  Texas of
certain  operational and administrative  functions  previously based in Midland,
Texas;  the  closings  of the  Company's  regional  offices  in  Oklahoma  City,
Oklahoma,  Corpus  Christi,  Texas,  and  Houston,  Texas;  the  elimination  of
approximately 350 employee positions; and, other initiatives. As a direct result
of those measures, the Company recognized reorganization charges of $8.5 million
and $33.2  million,  respectively,  during 1999 and 1998 (see Note M of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding reorganization costs paid
during 1999 and 1998,  and unpaid  reorganization  costs as of December 31, 1999
and 1998).

       Other  expenses.  Other  expenses  were $34.7  million  during  1999,  as
compared  to $39.6  million  during 1998 and $7.1  million  during  1997.  Other
expenses  recognized during 1999 were primarily  attributable to fluctuations in
mark-to- market provisions on derivative financial  instruments.  Mark-to-market
provisions in 1999 included $21.2 million  associated  with non-hedge  commodity
derivatives  and $11.9  million  associated  with four million  shares of common
stock of a closely held, non-affiliated,  public entity, the investment in which
the Company divested during the second quarter of 1999; partially offset by $5.9
million of  mark-to-market  income  recognized  on a series of  forward  foreign
exchange swap agreements and income of $.2 million associated with the Company's
Btu swap agreements. Other expense for 1998 included, and increased primarily as
a result of, $20.5 million of  mark-to-market  adjustments of non- hedge foreign
currency  and  Btu  swap  agreements;  a  $9.6  million  write-off  of  deferred
compensation  arising from change of control features in the Company's incentive
plans; $4.4 million of other expenses  associated with the Company's  operations
in Argentina and Canada;  and,  $2.3 million of bad debt expense.  Other expense
for 1997 included a $5.2 million  mark-to-market  charge associated with the Btu
swap agreements.  See "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About
Market  Risk" and Notes C and H of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" for specific
disclosures  pertaining to the  Company's  investments  in derivative  financial
instruments.

       Income tax  provisions  (benefits).  Due to  uncertainties  regarding the
Company's  ability to  realize  net  operating  loss  carryovers  and tax credit
carryovers prior to their scheduled  expirations,  the Company did not recognize
deferred income tax benefits  associated with its operating results for 1999 and
1998. Additionally, during 1998, the Company's net loss was impacted by a $271.1
million  valuation  allowance  recognized  to reduce the  carrying  value of the
Company's  deferred  tax  assets.  Although  realization  is not assured for the
remaining  deferred tax asset,  the Company  believes it is more likely than not
that they will be realized  through future taxable  earnings or alternative  tax
planning  strategies.  However,  the net  deferred  tax assets  could be reduced
further  if the  Company's  estimate  of  taxable  income in future  periods  is
significantly  reduced or  alternative  tax  planning  strategies  are no longer
viable. As a result of this situation, it is likely that the Company's effective
tax rate in 2000 will be minimal. If the Company recognizes income before income
taxes in 2000, its effective tax rate will be reduced to the extent that taxable
earnings are recognized in those tax jurisdictions relative to which the Company
has  established  its valuation  allowance.  See Note N of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for  information  regarding  the  Company's  income taxes and deferred tax
asset valuation reserves.

       Extraordinary  items. On December 18, 1997, the Company  completed a cash
tender  offer for a  significant  portion  of the  11-5/8%  senior  subordinated
discount notes due 2006 and the 10-5/8% senior  subordinated notes due 2006 (the
"10-5/8% Notes") (collectively,  the "Subordinated Notes") assumed from Mesa for
a redemption price of $829.90 and $1,171.40,  respectively,  per $1,000 tendered
plus any interest accrued on the 10 5/8% Notes (the "Tender Offer"). As a result
of the Tender  Offer,  the Company  recognized  an  extraordinary  loss on early
extinguishment  of debt of $11.9  million  (net of a related tax benefit of $6.4
million)  during the fourth quarter of 1997.  The Company  financed the purchase
price of the Subordinated  Notes tendered in the offer with borrowings under its
bank credit facility.

       The year ended  December 31, 1997 also  includes a $1.5 million (net of a
related tax benefit of $800 thousand)  non-cash charge for an extraordinary loss
on  early extinguishment of  debt resulting  from the Parker & Parsley  and Mesa

                                       29


<PAGE>



merger. This extraordinary loss relates to capitalized  issuance fees associated
with Parker & Parsley's  previously  existing  bank  credit  facility  which was
replaced by a new credit facility agreement for the Company.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

       Capital  commitments.  The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of  principal  and  interest on  outstanding  indebtedness  and working  capital
obligations.

       The Company's cash  expenditures  for additions to oil and gas properties
(including   individual  property   acquisitions,   but  not  including  company
acquisitions) during 1999, 1998 and 1997 totaled $179.7 million,  $507.3 million
and $428.6 million,  respectively. The $327.6 million, or 65 percent, decline in
1999 capital  expenditures as compared to the expenditures of 1998 resulted from
the 1999 capital  expenditures budget  curtailments  announced by the Company at
the end of 1998. The 1999 expenditures include $142.0 million of development and
exploratory  drilling and seismic costs, of which $98.6 million,  or 69 percent,
were development expenditures. During 1999, $77.6 million, or 55 percent, of the
Company's  drilling and seismic  expenditures  occurred in the United States, of
which amount $39.2 million, or 51 percent, were expended in the Gulf Coast area;
$33.3 million, or 43 percent, were expended in the Permian Basin area; and, $4.9
million,  or six percent,  were expended in the Mid Continent  area. Also during
1999, the Company  expended $64.4  million,  or 45 percent,  of its drilling and
seismic capital  internationally  in Argentina ($34.6 million,  or 54 percent of
international drilling and seismic  expenditures),  Canada ($26.1 million, or 41
percent  of  international   drilling  and  seismic   expenditures)   and  other
international areas ($3.7 million, or five percent of international drilling and
seismic  expenditures),  including  South  Africa  and  Gabon.  The 1998  amount
includes  $450.3 million of  development  and  exploratory  drilling and seismic
costs, of which $332.0 million,  or 74 percent,  were development  expenditures.
During  1998,  $308.2  million,  or 68 percent,  of the  Company's  drilling and
seismic expenditures  occurred in the United States, of which $167.4 million, or
54  percent,  were  expended  in the Gulf Coast area and $112.6  million,  or 37
percent,  was expended in the Permian Basin area. Also, during 1998, the Company
expended $142.1 million,  or 32 percent,  of its drilling and seismic capital in
its international regions, located in Argentina ($57.5 million, or 13 percent of
worldwide  drilling and seismic  expenditures),  Canada  ($65.8  million,  or 15
percent of worldwide drilling and seismic  expenditures) and other international
areas  ($18.8  million,  or four  percent  of  worldwide  drilling  and  seismic
expenditures), including South Africa and Gabon. The 1997 amount includes $292.6
million for  development and  exploratory  drilling when the Company's  drilling
activities  were focused  primarily in the Spraberry field of the Permian Basin.
Significant drilling expenditures in 1997 included $99.0 million in the unitized
portion of the Spraberry field of the Permian Basin  (including $47.6 million in
the  Driver  unit,  $12.7  million in the  Preston  unit,  $12.6  million in the
Shackelford  unit, $12.2 million in the North Pembrook unit and $10.5 million in
the Merchant  unit),  $14.9 million in other  portions of the  Spraberry  field,
$46.5 million in other areas of the Permian Basin,  $91.3 million in the onshore
and offshore  Gulf Coast region,  $29.9 million in the Mid Continent  region and
$11.0 million in Argentina and Guatemala.

       The  Company's  2000  capital  expenditure  budget  has  been set at $250
million.  Capital expenditures for 2000 are expected to include $200 million for
exploitation activities and $50 million for exploration activities.  The Company
expects that cash provided by operating  activities  during 2000 will exceed the
2000 capital  expenditure  budget. To the extent that cash provided by operating
activities  exceed  capital  expenditures  during 2000,  the Company  intends to
further  reduce  its   outstanding   debt.  The  Company   budgets  its  capital
expenditures based on projected  internally-  generated cash flows and routinely
adjusts the level of its capital expenditures in response to anticipated changes
in cash flows.

       Funding for the  Company's  working  capital  obligations  is provided by
internally-generated  cash flow.  Funding for the  repayment  of  principal  and
interest on outstanding debt and the Company's capital  expenditure  program may
be provided by any combination of internally-generated  cash flow, proceeds from
the  disposition of  non-strategic  assets or alternative  financing  sources as
discussed in "Capital Resources" below.

       Capital  resources.  The Company's primary capital resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital  commitments  and allow further
reductions in debt in 2000.

                                       30


<PAGE>



       Operating  activities.  Net cash provided by operating  activities during
1999,  1998 and 1997 were $255.2  million,  $314.1  million and $228.2  million,
respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities during 1999 decreased 19
percent  from that of 1998  primarily  as a result  of  declines  in  production
volumes due to oil and gas property divestitures,  partially offset by increases
in commodity  prices and decreases in production and  administrative  costs. Net
cash provided by operating  activities during 1999, as compared to that of 1998,
also  declined  as a result of  increases  in working  capital  associated  with
operating  activities.  Net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  in  1998
increased 38 percent over that of 1997 as a result of the  increased  production
realized from the properties acquired from Mesa and Chauvco, partially offset by
declining  commodity prices and increased general and  administrative  expenses,
reorganization  expenditures,   and  interest  expense.  Net  cash  provided  by
operating  activities  in  1997  was  comparable  to  that  of  1996.  Increased
production in 1997 was offset by increased general and  administrative  expenses
and interest expenses and the payment of certain  liabilities assumed from Mesa,
including severance payments made to former Mesa employees.

       Financing  Activities.  As  described  more  fully  in Note D of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data",  the Company was a borrower  under three  credit  facility
agreements  with a  syndicate  of banks which  provided  for a total bank credit
facility of $1.4 billion as of December 31,  1998.  During the first  quarter of
1999,  the Company and the  participating  banks  amended  the  existing  credit
facilities by consolidating  them into the Credit  Facility.  Under the terms of
the Credit  Facility,  the Company  agreed to reduce the total loan  commitments
under the Credit  Facility by $410 million by December  31,  1999;  the interest
rate on LIBOR Rate  advances was  increased to 250 basis  points;  and,  certain
other Credit  Facility  amendments.  The Credit Facility  contains  various debt
convenants, the most restrictive being the maintenance of a ratio of outstanding
Company debt to earnings before interest, depletion, depreciation, amortization,
income tax,  exploration and abandonment and other non-cash expenses ("EBITDAX")
not to exceed 4.25 to one through  March 31,  2000,  and 3.5 to one  thereafter.
Other restrictive  compliance  requirements  include limits on the incurrence of
additional  indebtedness  and  certain  types of liens  and  restrictions  as to
merger, sale or transfer of assets and transactions  without the Banks' consent.
During 1999, the Company reduced its loan commitments  under the Credit Facility
to  $939.6  million  in early  compliance  with the  loan  commitment  reduction
requirement.  As a result of the loan  commitment  reduction  and the  Company's
compliance with other Credit  Facility debt covenants,  the future interest rate
margin on LIBOR Rate  advances  under the Credit  Facility  has been  reduced to
187.5 basis points.

       At December 31, 1999, the Company has four other outstanding  senior debt
issuances.  Such debt issuances consist of (i) $150 million aggregate  principal
amount of 8-7/8% senior notes due in 2005; (ii) $150 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8-1/4%  senior  notes  due in 2007;  (iii)  $350  million  aggregate
principal  amount of 6-1/2%  senior  notes due in 2008;  and,  (iv) $250 million
aggregate  principal  amount of 7-1/5%  senior  notes due in 2028.  The weighted
average  interest  rate for the year ended  December  31, 1999 on the  Company's
indebtedness  was 7.81  percent as compared  to 7.16  percent for the year ended
December 31, 1998 and 7.04 percent for the year ended  December 31, 1997 (taking
into account the effect of interest rate swaps).

       As  the  Company  continues  to  pursue  its  strategy,  it  may  utilize
alternative  financing  sources,  including  the issuance for cash of fixed rate
long-term  public debt,  convertible  securities or preferred stock. The Company
may also issue securities in exchange for oil and gas properties, stock or other
interests  in  other  oil  and  gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional
securities  may be of a class  preferred  to common  stock with  respect to such
matters as dividends and  liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and
preferences as determined by the Company's Board of Directors.

       Sales of non-strategic  Assets. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, proceeds from
the sale of  non-strategic  assets  totaled  $420.5  million,  $21.9 million and
$115.7  million,  respectively.  The  Company's  1999  asset  divestitures  were
comprised of  non-strategic  United States and Canadian oil and gas  properties,
gas  plants  and  other  assets.  The net cash  proceeds  from  the  1999  asset
divestitures  were used to reduce the Company's  outstanding  indebtedness  (see
"Results of Operations",  above,  and Note K of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data").
The proceeds from the 1998 and 1997 asset  divestitures were primarily  utilized
to provide funding for a portion of the Company's  capital  expenditures  during
those years.

       Liquidity.  At December 31, 1999,  the Company had $34.8  million of cash
and cash  equivalents  on hand,  compared to $59.2 million at December 31, 1998.
The Company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was .93 at December
31, 1999 and .38 at December 31, 1998.

                                       31


<PAGE>




Other Items

       Year  2000  project  readiness.  As the year  2000 was  approaching,  the
inability of some computer  programs and embedded  technologies  to  distinguish
between  "1900" and "2000" gave rise to the "Year 2000"  problem.  Such computer
programs and related  technology  were at risk to fail  outright or  communicate
inaccurate  data,  if not  remediated  or replaced.  With the  proliferation  of
electronic  data  interchange,  the Year 2000 problem  represented a significant
exposure to the entire global  community,  the full extent of which could not be
accurately assessed prior to the year 2000.

       In proactive response to the Year 2000 problem, the Company established a
"Year  2000"  project  that  assessed,  to the extent  possible,  the  Company's
internal Year 2000 problem; took remedial actions necessary to minimize the Year
2000 risk exposure to the Company and significant third parties with whom it has
data interchange;  and, tested the Company's systems and processes once remedial
actions were taken.  The Company  contracted with IBM Global Services to perform
the assessment and remedial phases of its Year 2000 project. The Company's total
costs related to the Year 2000 problem were $2.5 million,  which was funded from
working capital.

       The Company has closely  monitored its  information  and  non-information
technology systems since the beginning of 2000 and has identified no significant
Year 2000  failures or problems.  The Company will continue to monitor Year 2000
risks and issues.  There can be no assurances that unforeseen  problems will not
be encountered in the future.

       Proposal to acquire  partnerships.  On September 8, 1999, Pioneer Natural
Resources USA, Inc. ("Pioneer USA") filed a preliminary proxy statement with the
SEC  proposing  an  agreement  and plan of merger to the limited  partners of 25
publicly-held Parker & Parsley limited partnerships. Pioneer USA is the managing
partner of the Parker & Parsley  limited  partnerships.  The  preliminary  proxy
statement is non-binding and is subject to, among other things, consideration of
offers  from third  parties to  purchase  any  partnership  or its  assets,  the
majority approval of the limited partners in each partnership and the resolution
of SEC review comments. The Company is continuing to evaluate the feasibility of
the proposed agreement and plan of merger;  however, the current commodity price
outlook has diminished the  likelihood  that the proposed  agreement and plan of
merger will be consummated.

       Accounting  for  derivatives.  In June  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued  Statement of  Accounting  Standards No. 133,
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").
SFAS  133  establishes   accounting  and  reporting   standards  for  derivative
instruments,   including  certain  derivative   instruments  embedded  in  other
contracts, (collectively referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities.
It  requires  that an entity  recognize  all  derivatives  as  either  assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments
at fair value.  If certain  conditions are met, a derivative may be specifically
designated  as (a) a hedge of the  exposure  to  changes  in the fair value of a
recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, (b) a hedge of
the exposure to variable cash flows of a forecasted transaction,  or (c) a hedge
of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation,  an
unrecognized   firm   commitment,   an   available-for-sale   security,   or   a
foreign-currency-denominated forecasted transaction.

       In June 1999, the FASB issued Statement of Accounting  Standards No. 137,
"Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities - Deferral of the
Effective  Date of FASB Statement No. 133 - and amendment of FASB Statement 133"
("SFAS 137").  SFAS 137 defers the  effective  date for SFAS 133 to fiscal years
beginning  after June 15, 2000. The Company has not determined  what effect,  if
any, SFAS 133 will have on its consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

       The following quantitative and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company is a party as of December  31, 1999
and 1998,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates,  commodity prices or
common and preferred stock prices.  Although certain  derivative  contracts that
the Company is a party to do not qualify as hedges,  the Company  does not enter
into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes.

                                       32


<PAGE>



Quantitative Disclosures

       Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide information,  in
United  States  dollar  equivalent  amounts,   about  the  Company's  derivative
financial  instruments  and other financial  instruments  that the Company was a
party to as of December  31, 1999 and 1998,  which are  sensitive  to changes in
interest rates. For debt obligations,  the tables present maturities by expected
maturity dates together with the weighted  average interest rates expected to be
paid on the debt, given current  contractual  terms and market  conditions.  For
fixed rate debt, the weighted  average  interest rate represents the contractual
fixed rates that the Company is obligated to  periodically  pay on the debt; for
variable rate debt, the average interest rate represents the average rates being
paid on the debt projected forward  proportionate to the forward yield curve for
United States  treasury  securities.  As of December 31, 1998, the Company was a
party to a series of interest  rate swap  agreements  whereby the Company paid a
variable rate on a $150 million notional amount and received a fixed annual rate
of 6.62 percent of the notional amount. The fair value of the swap agreements to
the Company  represented an asset of $1.046 million as of December 31, 1998. The
swap agreements were accounted for as hedges by the Company until their maturity
during May and June 1999.  The Company was also a party to a non- hedge interest
rate cap as of December  31,  1998.  Under the terms of the cap  agreement,  the
Company  paid the  counterparties  a .28  percent  annual rate on an $80 million
notional amount, so long as the Canadian bankers' acceptance  reference rate did
not  exceed  8.00  percent  per year.  The fair value of the  interest  rate cap
represented a liability of the Company of $80 thousand on December 31, 1998. The
interest rate cap matured in August 1999.

                                       33


<PAGE>



                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity

       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999
<TABLE>
                               2000     2001      2002      2003     2004    Thereafter    Total     Fair Value
                              ------   ------   --------   ------   ------   ----------   --------   ----------
                                                                (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                           <C>      <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>          <C>        <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt.......   $  828   $  -     $    -     $  518   $  571   $ 919,019    $920,936   $776,230(1)
     Weighted average
       interest rate......      7.50%    7.50%      7.50%    7.50%    7.50%       7.50%
     Variable rate debt...    $  -     $  -     $825,000                                  $825,000   $825,000
     Average interest rates     7.65%    7.70%      7.65%
</TABLE>

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                            Interest Rate Sensitivity

       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1998
<TABLE>
                                1999      2000     2001      2002       2003    Thereafter     Total       Fair Value
                              --------   ------   ------   --------   -------   ----------   ----------   ------------
                                                        (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                           <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt.......   $    330   $  -     $  -     $  1,508   $ 1,447   $ 932,948    $  936,233   $  743,701(1)
     Weighted average
       interest rate.......       7.50%    7.50%    7.50%      7.50%     7.50%       7.50%
     Variable rate debt....   $306,191   $  -     $  -     $932,841                          $1,239,032   $1,239,032
     Average interest rates       5.85%    5.87%    5.89%      5.92%
- ---------------
</TABLE>
(1)   Excludes $23.0 million and $38.5 million of debt instruments for which
      fair values were not practicable to derive as of December 31, 1999
      and 1998, respectively.

       Foreign   exchange  rate   sensitivity.   The  following  tables  provide
information,  in United States dollar  equivalent  amounts,  about the Company's
derivative financial  instruments that the Company was a party to as of December
31, 1999 and 1998 and that are sensitive to changes in foreign  exchange  rates.
The tables provide  information  regarding the notional amounts of the Company's
Canadian  dollar  denominated   foreign  currency  swap  derivative   contracts,
including rates paid and received by the Company and forward  currency  exchange
rates. See "Interest rate  sensitivity",  above,  for information  regarding the
Company's  Canadian  dollar  denominated  interest rate cap that matured  during
August 1999.

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999
<TABLE>
                                2000     2001     2002     2003     2004    Thereafter     Total     Fair Value
                              -------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ----------   ---------   ----------
                                                            (in thousands except foreign exchange rates)
<S>                           <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>          <C>         <C>
Non-hedge Foreign Exchange
  Rate Derivatives:
  Notional amount of foreign
     currency swaps (1).....  $72,000                                                    $  72,000   $  (4,168)
  Fixed Canadian to U.S.
     dollar rate paid.......   1.3606
  Average forward Canadian
     dollar to U.S. dollar

      exchange rate.........   1.4455

</TABLE>
                                       34


<PAGE>



                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1998
<TABLE>
                                 1999      2000      2001      2002      2003    Thereafter    Total     Fair Value
                               -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------   --------   ----------
                                                 (in thousands except foreign exchange rates)
<S>                            <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>
Non-hedge Foreign Exchange
  Rate Derivatives:
  Notional amount of  foreign
    currency swaps (1)......   $72,000   $72,000                                              $144,000   $  (15,350)
  Fixed Canadian to U.S.
    dollar rate paid........    1.3670    1.3606
  Average forward Canadian
    dollar to U.S. dollar
     exchange rate..........    1.4990    1.4963
- ---------------
</TABLE>
(1) The foreign exchange rate swaps mature in October and December 2000.

       Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in
United  States  dollar  equivalent  amounts,   about  the  Company's  derivative
financial  instruments  that the Company was a party to as of December  31, 1999
and 1998 and that  are  sensitive  to  changes  in  crude  oil and  natural  gas
commodity  prices.  The tables segregate hedge  derivative  contracts from those
that do not qualify as hedges.

       Commodity hedge instruments. The Company hedges commodity price risk with
swap contracts, put contracts,  collar contracts and collar contracts with short
put options. Swap contracts provide a fixed price for a notional amount of sales
volumes. Put contracts provide a fixed floor price on a notional amount of sales
volumes while  allowing  full price  participation  if the relevant  index price
closes above the floor  price.  Collar  contracts  provide a floor price for the
Company on a notional  amount of sales  volumes while  allowing some  additional
price  participation  if the relevant  index price closes above the floor price.
Collar  contracts with short put options  differ from other collar  contracts by
virtue of the short put option price below which the  Company's  realized  price
will  exceed  variable  market  prices  by  the  long   put-to-short  put  price
differential.

       Commodity  non-hedge  instruments.  The Company has entered into BTU swap
contracts and optional call contracts that do not qualify for hedge  accounting.
Under the terms of the BTU swap  contracts,  the Company  receives 10 percent of
the NYMEX oil  price  and pays the  NYMEX gas price on a 13,036  notional  MMBtu
daily gas volume.  As of December 31, 1998, this  derivative  instrument was the
only financial  instrument that the Company was a party to that was sensitive to
changes  in crude oil  prices.  The  relevant  information  is  included  in the
Company's natural gas price sensitivity table as of December 31, 1998.

       The terms of the optional call contracts provide the counterparties  with
the option to elect to call  either  notional  crude oil  volumes or natural gas
volumes at specific index prices. Accordingly,  these derivative instruments are
presented in both the accompanying crude oil and natural gas tables.

       See  Notes  B, C and H of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
description of the  accounting  procedures  followed by the Company  relative to
hedge  and  non-hedge   derivative   financial   instruments  and  for  specific
information   regarding  the  terms  of  the  Company's   derivative   financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in natural gas and crude oil commodity
prices.

                                       35


<PAGE>



                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                           Crude Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999
<TABLE>
                                          2000       2001       2002       2003       2004     Fair Value
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Crude Oil Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional Bbl
   volumes:
    Swap contracts (2)................     9,519                                               $  (5,714)
     Weighted average per Bbl
       fixed price....................  $  16.51
    Collar contracts..................       826                                               $    (189)
     Weighted average short call
       per Bbl ceiling price..........  $  23.00
     Weighted average long
       put per Bbl floor price........  $  19.00
    Collar contracts with short
     put (2) (3)......................     7,000      8,000                                    $  (9,407)
     Weighted average short call
       per Bbl ceiling price..........  $  20.42   $  21.57
     Weighted average long put
       per Bbl floor price............  $  17.29   $  18.44
     Weighted average short put
       per Bbl price below which
       floor becomes variable.........  $  14.29   $  15.44
Crude Oil Non-hedge Derivatives:
  Daily notional crude oil Bbl
    volumes under optional calls
    sold..............................    10,000                                               $ (13,259)
     Weighted average short call
       per Bbl ceiling price..........  $  20.00
     Average forward NYMEX
       crude oil price per Bbl (4)....  $  24.03
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes
       under swap of NYMEX
       gas price for 10 percent of
       NYMEX WTI price................    13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036   $ (13,218)
    Average forward NYMEX
     gas prices (4)...................  $   2.65   $   2.58   $   2.57   $   2.62   $   2.67
    Average forward NYMEX
     oil prices (4)...................  $  24.03   $  20.33   $  18.83   $  18.27   $  18.12
</TABLE>
- ---------------

(1)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for years 2000 and 2001.

(2)  During the first quarter of 2000, the Company  terminated June 2000 through
     December 2000 swap contracts for notional volumes of 9,000 Bbls per day and
     the 2001 collar  contracts  with short puts for  notional  volumes of 8,000
     Bbls per day, at a total cost of $16.1 million.

(3)  The  counterparties  to the year 2000 collar contracts with short puts have
     the contractual  right to extend contracts for notional contract volumes of
     5,000 Bbls per day  through  year 2001 at  weighted  average per Bbl strike
     prices of $20.09 for the short call ceiling price,  $17.00 for the long put
     floor  price and  $14.00  for the short  put  price  below  which the floor
     becomes variable.

(4) The average  forward  NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 2, 2000
market quotes.

                                       36


<PAGE>



                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999
<TABLE>
                                                  2000       2001       2002       2003       2004     Fair Value
                                                --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional MMBtu
  volumes (2):
    Swap contracts (3)........................       328        -       10,000                         $  (5,385)
     Weighted average per
       MMBtu fixed price......................  $   3.00   $    -     $   2.42
    Collar contracts with short puts (4) (5)..    93,814     60,000                                    $  (5,518)
     Weighted average short call
        MMBtu ceiling price...................  $   2.62   $   2.64
     Weighted average long put
        MMBtu contingent floor price..........  $   2.07   $   2.25
     Weighted average short put
        MMBtu price below which
        floor becomes variable................  $   1.78   $   1.95
Natural Gas Non-hedge
 Derivatives:
  Daily notional gas MMBtu volumes
   under optional calls sold..................   100,000                                               $ (13,259)
    Weighted average short call
     per MMBtu ceiling price..................  $   2.75
    Average forward NYMEX
     gas price per MMBtu (6)..................  $   2.65
    Daily notional MMBtu volumes
     under agreement to swap
      NYMEX gas price for 10 percent
      of NYMEX WTI price......................    13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036   $ (13,218)
    Average forward NYMEX
     gas prices (6)...........................  $   2.65   $   2.58   $   2.57   $   2.62   $   2.67
    Average forward NYMEX
     oil prices (6)...........................  $  24.03   $  20.33   $  18.83   $  18.27   $  18.12
- --------------
</TABLE>
(1)  To minimize basis risks,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to connect the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(2)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for years 2000, 2001 and 2002.

(3)  Certain  counterparties to the swap contracts have the contractual right to
     sell year 2001,  2002 and 2003 swap  contracts  to the Company for notional
     daily  contract  volumes  of  49,223,  12,500  and  10,000  MMBtu  per  day
     respectively, at prices of $2.21, $2.52 and $2.58 per MMBtu, respectively.

(4)  During the first quarter of 2000, the Company  terminated  collar contracts
     with short puts for notional  contract  volumes of 45,000 MMBtu per day for
     the period  from  April  2000  through  December  2000 and the 2001  collar
     contracts with short puts for notional contract volumes of 60,000 MMBtu per
     day, at a cost of $4.6 million.

(5)  54,582 MMBtu per day of year 2000 collar option  contracts  with short puts
     are extendable at the option of the counterparties for a period of one year
     at average per MMBtu  prices of $2.71,  $2.09 and $1.80 for the short call,
     long put and short put, respectively, 60,000 MMBtu per day of the year 2000
     collar option contracts with short puts are extendable at the option of the
     counterparties  at average per MMBtu  prices of $2.64,  $2.25 and $1.95 for
     the short call, long put and short put, respectively.

(6)  The average forward  NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 2, 2000
     market quotes.

                                       37


<PAGE>



                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1998

<TABLE>
                                       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003     Thereafter   Fair Value
                                     --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>

Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives:
  Average daily notional MMBtu
   volumes:
    Swap contracts................    137,044     35,000                                                 $  17,827
     Weighted average MMBtu
       fixed price................   $   2.21   $   1.35
    Collar option contracts.......     33,400                                                            $     323
     Weighted average short call
       MMBtu ceiling price........   $   2.56
     Weighted average long put
       MMBtu floor price..........   $   1.91
    Collar option contracts with
     short puts...................    114,286     93,074                                                 $   8,398
     Weighted average short call
       MMBtu ceiling price........   $   2.64   $   2.75
     Weighted average long put
       MMBtu contingent floor
       price......................   $   2.12   $   2.14
     Weighted average short put
       MMBtu price below which
       floor becomes variable.....   $   1.82   $   1.84
Natural Gas Non-hedge
 Derivatives:
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes
     under agreement to swap
     NYMEX gas price for 10
     percent of NYMEX WTI
     price........................     13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036     13,036       13,036   $ (15,172)
     Average forward NYMEX
       gas prices.................   $   1.97   $   2.17   $   2.25   $   2.34   $   2.39    $    2.45
     Average forward NYMEX oil
       prices.....................   $  13.00   $  14.75   $  16.00   $  16.75   $  17.45    $    17.88
</TABLE>

       Other price sensitivity.  During 1998, the Company acquired three million
shares of Costilla Energy Inc.  ("Costilla")  common stock in partial payment of
option fees associated  with an irrevocable  option sold to Costilla in December
1998, the terms of which allowed  Costilla the option to acquire  certain assets
of the Company. The fair value of the Costilla common stock owned by the Company
was $12 million as of December 31,  1998.  The Company  sold its  investment  in
common  stock of  Costilla  during  1999.  See  Note C of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial  Statements included in"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplemental
Data".

       As of December  31, 1999,  the Company  owned  2,376.923  shares of Prize
Energy  Corp.   ("Prize")  six  percent  convertible   preferred  stock  ("Prize
Preferred") that had a liquidation  preference and estimated fair value of $30.0
million  when  acquired on June 29, 1999.  As of December 31, 1999,  Prize was a
closely held,  non-public  entity and the fair value of the Prize  Preferred was
not readily determinable.

       On February 9, 2000, Prize announced a merger with Vista Energy Resources
Inc.,  whereby the common  stock of the merged  Prize  entity  began to publicly
trade on the American Stock Exchange.  Associated therewith, the Company's Prize
Preferred was exchanged  for 3,984,197  shares of Prize Series A 6%  Convertible
Preferred Stock ("Prize Senior A Preferred") having a liquidation preference and
stated value of $7.81 per share,  plus cumulative  dividends accrued and unpaid.
Each share of Prize  Series A  Preferred  is  convertible,  at the option of the
holder, into one share of Prize common stock. Under certain circumstances, Prize

                                       38


<PAGE>


may redeem the Prize Series A Preferred  at the stated  value per share,  unless
the Company exercises its conversion  rights. The fair value of the Prize Series
A Preferred is not readily determinable.

Qualitative Disclosures

       Non-derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company is a borrower  under
fixed rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate
risk. The Company's  objective in borrowing under fixed or variable rate debt is
to satisfy capital requirements while minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
To realize its  objectives,  the Company  borrows  under fixed and variable rate
debt  instruments,  based on the availability of capital,  market conditions and
hedge  opportunities.  See Note D of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
discussion relative to the Company's debt instruments.

       Derivative financial  instruments.  The Company has entered into interest
rate,  foreign exchange rate and commodity price  derivative  contracts to hedge
interest rate,  foreign  exchange rate and commodity  price risks.  Although the
Company  is a party  to  certain  foreign  exchange  rate  and  commodity  price
derivative  contracts that do not qualify for hedge  accounting  treatment,  the
Company's policy is to only enter into derivative contracts that, in the opinion
of management, reduce the Company's overall economic risk.

       As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company was a party to the Canadian
denominated  foreign  exchange rate swap,  optional  commodity calls and the BTU
swap that are described more fully in Quantitative Disclosures,  above, and Note
H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary  Data". These financial  instruments do not qualify
as hedges of foreign  exchange  rate or  commodity  price  risk under  generally
accepted accounting standards.

       The Company  intends to only enter into interest rate,  foreign  exchange
rate  or  commodity  price  derivative  instruments  that,  in  the  opinion  of
management,  reduce  the  Company's  interest  rate,  foreign  exchange  rate or
commodity  price  risk  profiles.  Occasionally,  the  Company  may  enter  into
derivative financial instruments that reduce the Company's risk profiles, but do
not qualify  for hedge  accounting  treatment.  See Notes B, C and H of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for further discussions relative to the Company's objectives
and general strategies associated with its hedge instruments.

       As of December 31, 1999, the Company's  primary risk exposure  associated
with financial  instruments to which it is a party include crude oil and natural
gas price  volatility,  interest rate  volatility and Canadian  dollar to United
States dollar  foreign  exchange  rate  volatility.  The Company's  primary risk
exposures associated with financial  instruments have not changed  significantly
since December 31, 1999.

                                       39


<PAGE>



ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                           Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
   Independent Auditors' Reports.........................................   41
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998..........   42
   Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for
       the Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..................   43
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended
      December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997...................................   44
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,
      1999, 1998, and 1997...............................................   45
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements............................   46
   Unaudited Supplementary Information...................................   76



                                       40


<PAGE>



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORTS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

       We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the related  consolidated  statements  of  operations  and  comprehensive  loss,
stockholders'  equity,  and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998.  These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits.

       We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

       In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company and  subsidiaries  at December 31, 1999 and
1998, and the consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 in conformity with accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States.

                                            Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas
January 24, 2000

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

       We  have  audited  the   consolidated   statements  of   operations   and
comprehensive  loss,  stockholders'  equity,  and cash flows of Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company and  subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 1997. These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audit.

       We conducted our audit in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provided a reasonable basis for our opinion.

       In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements referred to above
present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the results of operations and cash
flows of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company and subsidiaries for the year ended
December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                             KPMG LLP

Midland, Texas
February 13, 1998

                                       41


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)

                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
                                                                          December 31,
                                                                   -------------------------
                                                                       1999          1998
                                                                   -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                <C>           <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents......................................  $    34,788   $    59,221
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net...................................................      116,456       106,863
    Affiliates...................................................        2,119         3,657
  Inventories....................................................       13,721        15,221
  Deferred income taxes..........................................        5,800         7,100
  Other current assets...........................................       10,252         9,926
                                                                    ----------    ----------
      Total current assets.......................................      183,136       201,988
                                                                    ----------    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts
   method of accounting:
    Proved properties............................................    2,997,335     3,621,630
    Unproved properties..........................................      257,583       342,589
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization...........     (751,956)     (930,111)
                                                                    ----------    ----------
                                                                     2,502,962     3,034,108
Deferred income taxes............................................       83,400        96,800
Other property and equipment, net................................       43,006        55,010
Other assets, net................................................      116,969        93,408
                                                                    ----------    ----------
                                                                   $ 2,929,473   $ 3,481,314
                                                                    ==========    ==========
                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt...........................  $       828   $   306,521
  Accounts payable:
    Trade .......................................................       86,442        94,937
    Affiliates...................................................          426         4,492
  Interest payable...............................................       36,045        33,194
  Other current liabilities......................................       73,072        87,688
                                                                    ----------    ----------
      Total current liabilities..................................      196,813       526,832
                                                                    ----------    ----------
Long-term debt, less current maturities..........................    1,745,108     1,868,744
Other noncurrent liabilities.....................................      169,438       232,461
Deferred income taxes............................................       43,500        64,200
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares
    authorized; one share issued and outstanding.................          -             -
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    100,876,789 shares issued at December 31, 1999; and
    100,833,615 shares issued at December 31, 1998...............       1,009         1,008
  Additional paid-in capital.....................................    2,348,448     2,347,996
  Treasury stock, at cost; 537,206 shares at December 31, 1999
    and 537,392 shares at December 31, 1998......................      (10,384)      (10,388)
  Accumulated deficit............................................   (1,574,884)   (1,552,442)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income:
    Cumulative translation adjustment............................       10,425         2,903
                                                                    ----------    ----------
      Total stockholders' equity.................................      774,614       789,077
                                                                    ----------    ----------
Commitments and contingencies
                                                                   $ 2,929,473   $ 3,481,314
                                                                    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       42


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)
<TABLE>
                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                         1999         1998          1997
                                                       ---------   ----------   -----------
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>          <C>
Revenues:
   Oil and gas......................................   $ 644,646   $  711,492   $   536,782
   Interest and other...............................      89,657       10,452         4,278
   Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net........     (24,168)        (445)        4,969
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
                                                         710,135      721,499       546,029
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
Costs and expenses:
   Oil and gas production...........................     159,530      223,551       144,170
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.........     236,047      337,308       212,435
   Impairment of oil and gas properties.............      17,894      459,519     1,356,390
   Exploration and abandonments.....................      65,974      121,858        77,160
   General and administrative.......................      40,241       73,000        48,763
   Reorganization...................................       8,534       33,199           -
   Interest.........................................     170,344      164,285        77,550
   Other............................................      34,631       39,605         7,124
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
                                                         733,195    1,452,325     1,923,592
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
Loss before income taxes and extraordinary item.....     (23,060)    (730,826)   (1,377,563)
Income tax benefit (provision)......................         600      (15,600)      500,300
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
Loss before extraordinary item......................     (22,460)    (746,426)     (877,263)
Extraordinary item - loss on early extinguishment
   of debt, net of tax..............................         -            -         (13,408)
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
Net loss............................................     (22,460)    (746,426)     (890,671)

Other comprehensive income:
   Currency translation adjustment..................       8,358        2,903           -
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
Comprehensive loss..................................   $ (14,102)  $ (743,523)  $  (890,671)
                                                        ========    =========    ==========
Loss per share:
   Basic:
     Loss before extraordinary item.................   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)  $    (16.88)
     Extraordinary item.............................         -            -            (.26)
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
     Net loss.......................................   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)  $    (17.14)
                                                        ========    =========    ==========
   Diluted:
     Loss before extraordinary item.................   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)  $    (16.88)
     Extraordinary item.............................         -            -            (.26)
                                                        --------    ---------    ----------
     Net loss.......................................   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)  $    (17.14)
                                                        ========    =========    ==========
Dividends declared per share........................   $     -     $      .10   $       .10
                                                        ========    =========    ==========
Weighted average shares outstanding.................     100,307      100,055        51,973
                                                        ========    =========    ==========
</TABLE>
        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.

                                       43


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   (in thousands, except dividends per share)

<TABLE>
                                             Additional               Unearned    Accumulated   Accum. Other       Total
                                   Common      Paid-in    Treasury     Compen-      Earnings    Comprehensive   Stockholders'
                                    Stock      Capital      Stock      sation      (Deficit)       Income          Equity
                                   -------   ----------   ---------   ---------   -----------   -------------   ------------
<S>                                <C>       <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>             <C>
Balance at January 1, 1997.......  $   369   $  462,873   $ (31,528)  $  (1,625)  $   100,207      $    -       $    530,296

Common stock issued:
  Acquisition of MESA, Inc.......      318      982,248         -           -             -             -            982,566
  Acquisition of Chauvco
    Resources, Ltd...............      249      688,081         -           -             -             -            688,330
  Acquisition of properties......       16       44,857         -           -             -             -             44,873
Exercise of stock options........        5       11,591         -           -             -             -             11,596
Cancellation of treasury shares..      (19)     (34,441)     34,460         -             -             -                -
Exchange of preferred shares
  for common shares..............       67      182,909         -           -             -             -            182,976
Restricted shares awarded........        5       18,974         -       (18,079)          -             -                900
Tax benefits related to
  stock options..................      -          2,900         -           -             -             -              2,900
Purchase of treasury stock.......      -            -        (2,953)        -             -             -             (2,953)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation...................      -            -           -         3,508           -             -              3,508
Net loss.........................      -            -           -           -        (890,671)          -           (890,671)
Dividends ($.10 per share).......      -            -           -           -          (5,476)          -             (5,476)
                                    ------    ---------    --------    --------    ----------    ---------       -----------
Balance at December 31, 1997.....    1,010    2,359,992         (21)    (16,196)     (795,940)          -          1,548,845
                                    ------    ---------    --------    --------    ----------    ---------       -----------
Common stock issued in settlement
  of litigation..................      -            342         -           -             -             -                342
Reduction in common stock
  issued for acquisition of
  Chauvco Resources Ltd..........       (4)     (11,094)        -           -             -             -            (11,098)
Exercise of stock options........      -              3         -           -             -             -                  3
Restricted shares awarded........        2        3,053         -          (493)          -             -              2,562
Tax provision related to
  stock and option awards........      -         (4,300)        -           -             -             -             (4,300)
Purchase of treasury stock.......      -            -       (10,367)        -             -             -            (10,367)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation...................      -            -           -        16,689           -             -             16,689
Net loss.........................      -            -           -           -        (746,426)          -           (746,426)
Dividends ($.10 per share).......      -            -           -           -         (10,076)          -            (10,076)
Other comprehensive income:
  Currency translation adjustment      -            -           -           -             -          2,903             2,903
                                    ------    ---------    --------    --------    ----------    ---------       -----------
Balance at December 31, 1998.....    1,008    2,347,996     (10,388)        -      (1,552,442)       2,903           789,077
                                    ------    ---------    --------    --------    ----------    ---------       -----------
Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.......        1          249         -           -             -             -                250
Issuance of stock options under
  long-term incentive plan.......      -             25         -           -             -             -                 25
Restricted shares awarded........      -            178           4         -             -             -                182
Adjustment to dividends..........      -            -           -           -              18           -                 18
Realized translation adjustment..      -            -           -           -             -           (836)             (836)
Net loss.........................      -            -           -           -         (22,460)          -            (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Currency translation adjustment      -            -           -           -             -          8,358             8,358
                                    ------    ---------    --------    --------    ----------    ---------       -----------
Balance at December 31, 1999.....  $ 1,009   $2,348,448   $ (10,384)  $     -     $(1,574,884)  $   10,425      $    774,614
                                    ======    =========    ========    ========    ==========    =========       ===========
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       44


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                                  ------------------------------------
                                                                     1999         1998         1997
                                                                  ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                               <C>          <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net loss....................................................   $  (22,460)  $ (746,426)  $ (890,671)
   Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash
      provided by operating activities:
        Depletion, depreciation and amortization...............      236,047      337,308      212,435
        Impairment of oil and gas properties...................       17,894      459,519    1,356,390
        Exploration expenses, including dry holes..............       50,030       92,311       63,288
        Deferred income taxes..................................          -         18,600     (501,300)
        (Gain) loss on disposition of assets, net..............       24,168          445       (4,969)
        Loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.......          -            -         13,408
        Other noncash items....................................         (866)      66,300       18,886
   Change in operating assets and liabilities,  net of effects
      from acquisitions and dispositions:
        Accounts receivable....................................       (7,393)      85,413      (39,774)
        Inventory..............................................         (952)       2,714       (5,941)
        Other current assets...................................       (2,335)          30       (1,913)
        Accounts payable.......................................      (18,683)     (29,800)      27,138
        Interest payable.......................................        2,851       15,545        3,285
        Other current liabilities..............................      (23,067)      12,117      (22,053)
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
          Net cash provided by operating activities............      255,234      314,076      228,209
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
   Payment for acquisitions, net of cash acquired..............          -            -        (15,490)
   Proceeds from disposition of assets.........................      390,531       21,876      115,735
   Additions to oil and gas properties.........................     (179,669)    (507,337)    (428,640)
   Other property additions, net...............................      (11,867)     (31,546)     (12,783)
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
          Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities..      198,995     (517,007)    (341,178)
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
   Borrowings under long-term debt.............................      355,493      947,180      821,148
   Principal payments on long-term debt........................     (793,919)    (711,524)    (648,208)
   Payments of other noncurrent liabilities....................      (34,002)     (17,091)      (7,740)
   Deferred loan fees/issuance costs...........................       (6,891)      (7,189)      (2,396)
   Dividends...................................................          -        (10,076)      (5,476)
   Purchase of treasury stock..................................          -        (10,367)      (2,953)
   Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases......          250          -         11,596
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
          Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities..     (479,069)     190,933      165,971
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ..........      (24,840)     (11,998)      53,002
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...          407         (494)         -
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year...................       59,221       71,713       18,711
                                                                   ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year.........................   $   34,788   $   59,221   $   71,713
                                                                   =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>
              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       45


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

       Pioneer  Natural   Resources   Company  (the  "Company")  is  a  Delaware
Corporation  whose  common  stock is listed  and  traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Company was formed by the merger of
Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company ("Parker & Parsley") and MESA Inc. ("Mesa")
in August 1997. The Company subsequently acquired the Canadian and Argentine oil
and gas  business  of Chauvco  Resources  Ltd.  ("Chauvco"),  a publicly  traded
independent oil and gas company based in Calgary, Canada , during December 1997.
The Company is an oil and gas exploration and production  company with ownership
interests in oil and gas  properties  located  principally in the Mid Continent,
Southwestern  and onshore and offshore  Gulf Coast  regions of the United States
and in Argentina, Canada and South Africa.

       In accordance with the provisions of Accounting  Principles Board Opinion
No. 16,  "Business  Combinations"  ("APB 16"), both the merger with Mesa and the
acquisition of Chauvco were accounted for as purchases by the Company  (formerly
Parker & Parsley).  As a result,  the  historical  financial  statements for the
Company are those of Parker & Parsley prior to August 1997.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       Principles  of  consolidation.   The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the accounts of the Company and its  majority-owned  subsidiaries  since
their acquisition or formation, and the Company's interest in the affiliated oil
and gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of
its  wholly-owned   subsidiaries.   Investments  in  less  than   majority-owned
subsidiaries where the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence
over the  investee's  operations  are  accounted for by the equity  method.  The
Company  proportionately  consolidates  less than 100  percent-owned oil and gas
partnerships in accordance with industry practice.  The Company owns less than a
20 percent  interest  in the oil and gas  partnerships  that it  proportionately
consolidates.  All material  intercompany  balances and  transactions  have been
eliminated.

       The Company  determines the appropriate  classification of investments in
non-affiliated  equity  securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such
determinations at each balance sheet date.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  have a readily
determinable  fair value are classified as "trading  securities" if management's
current intent is to hold them for only a short period of time; otherwise,  they
are  accounted for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The carrying  value of
trading securities and available-for-sale  securities are adjusted to fair value
as of  each  balance  sheet  date.  Unrealized  holding  gains  and  losses  are
recognized for trading securities in interest and other revenue,  in the case of
unrealized  holding gains, or other expense,  in the case of unrealized  holding
losses,  during the  periods in which  changes in fair value  occur.  Unrealized
holding gains and losses would be recognized for  available-for-sale  securities
as  credits  or  charges to  stockholders'  equity  during the  periods in which
changes  in fair  value  occur,  and would  also be  included  as items of other
comprehensive  income  (loss).  The  Company  did not  have any  investments  in
available-for-sale  securities during the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 or
1997.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  do not  have a
readily  determinable  fair value are measured in the accompanying  Consolidated
Balance  Sheet as of December 31, 1999 at the lower of their  original cost less
associated  cash  dividends  received,  or  the  net  realizable  value  of  the
investment.

       Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements.  Preparation
of  the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the

                                       46


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
       Cash  equivalents.  Cash and cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

       Inventories.  Inventories  consist of lease and well  equipment which are
carried at the lower of cost or market, on a first-in first-out basis.

       Oil and gas  properties.  The Company  utilizes  the  successful  efforts
method of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this method,  all
costs associated with productive wells and  nonproductive  development wells are
capitalized  while  nonproductive  exploration  costs are expensed.  The Company
capitalizes interest on expenditures for significant  development projects until
such time as operations commence.

       The Company accounts for its natural gas processing facilities activities
as part of its oil and gas  properties  for financial  reporting  purposes.  All
revenues and expenses derived from third party gas volumes processed through the
Company's natural gas processing  facilities have been reported as components of
oil and gas production  costs.  The capitalized  costs of natural gas processing
facilities  are included in proved oil and gas properties and are depleted using
the unit-of-production method.

       Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties are depleted using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves  as  determined  by  the
Company's engineers. Costs of significant nonproducing properties,  wells in the
process of being drilled and  development  projects are excluded from  depletion
until such time as the related  project is  developed  and proved  reserves  are
established or impairment is determined.

       Generally,  capitalized costs of individual  properties sold or abandoned
are charged to accumulated  depletion,  depreciation and  amortization  with the
proceeds from the sales of individual  properties credited to property costs; no
gain or loss is recognized until the entire  amortization base is sold. However,
gain or loss is  recognized  from the sale of less than an  entire  amortization
base if the  property  costs are  significant  enough to  materially  impact the
depletion rate of the remaining properties in the amortization base.

       If significant,  the Company  accrues the estimated  future costs to plug
and abandon wells under the unit-of-  production  method. The charge, if any, is
reflected  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  and
Comprehensive  Loss as  abandonment  expense while the liability is reflected in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as other liabilities.  Plugging and
abandonment  liabilities  assumed in a business  combination  accounted for as a
purchase are recorded at fair value.  At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company
has recognized  plugging and abandonment  liabilities of $44.2 million and $44.5
million, respectively.

       In accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be Disposed Of", the Company reviews its long-lived  assets to be held and used,
including  proved  oil and gas  properties  accounted  for under the  successful
efforts method of accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the
carrying  value of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An impairment  loss is
indicated if the sum of the expected future cash flows is less than the carrying
amount of the assets. In this circumstance, the Company recognizes an impairment
loss for the  amount by which the  carrying  amount  of the  asset  exceeds  the
estimated fair value of the asset.

       Unproved oil and gas properties  that are  individually  significant  are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a  project-by-project  basis.  The  estimated  value is affected by the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or  expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of
potential  reserves  determined by such  evaluations are not sufficient to fully

                                       47


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will recognize a loss at
the time of  impairment  by providing an  impairment  allowance.  The  remaining
unproved  oil  and gas  properties  are  aggregated  and an  overall  impairment
allowance is provided based on the Company's historical experience.

       Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are recorded at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

       Environmental.  The Company's environmental  expenditures are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic  benefits are expensed.  Liabilities  for  expenditures of a noncapital
nature are recorded when environmental assessment and/or remediation is probable
and the  costs can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such  liabilities  are  generally
undiscounted  unless the timing of cash  payments for the liability are fixed or
reliably  determinable.  The Company believes that the costs for compliance with
current  environmental  laws  and  regulations  have not had and will not have a
material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

       Revenue  recognition.   The  Company  uses  the  entitlements  method  of
accounting for crude oil,  natural gas liquids ("NGL") and natural gas revenues.
Sales  proceeds in excess of the  Company's  entitlement  are  included in other
liabilities  and the  Company's  share of sales  taken by others is  included in
other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31,
1999 and 1998, entitlement  liabilities totaled $15.5 million and $20.6 million,
respectively,  and  entitlement  assets totaled $33.0 million and $38.2 million,
respectively.

       Stock-based  compensation.  The Company accounts for employee stock-based
compensation   using  the  intrinsic  value  method   prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB 25"). Accordingly,  the Company has only adopted the disclosure provisions
of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting   Standards  No.123,   "Accounting  for
Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). See Note F for the pro forma disclosures
of compensation expense determined under the fair-value provisions of SFAS 123.

       Hedging.  The following  criteria must be met in order for the Company to
account for a financial instrument as a hedge of an existing asset, liability or
forecasted transaction: an asset, liability or forecasted transaction must exist
that exposes the Company to price,  interest rate or foreign  exchange rate risk
that is not offset in another  asset or  liability;  the hedging  contract  must
reduce  that  price,  interest  rate or foreign  exchange  rate risk;  and,  the
instrument  must be  designated  as a hedge at the inception of the contract and
throughout the hedge period. In order to qualify as a hedge, there must be clear
correlation  between  changes in the fair value of the financial  instrument and
the fair value of the hedged asset,  liability or forecasted  transaction,  such
that changes in the market value of the financial  instrument  will be offset by
the effect of price,  interest  rate or  foreign  exchange  rate  changes on the
exposed items.

         Gains or losses  realized from  financial  instruments  that qualify as
hedges are deferred as assets or liabilities  until the underlying hedged asset,
liability or transaction  monetizes,  matures or is otherwise  recognized  under
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  When  recognized,  hedge gains and
losses are classified as components of the commodity prices, interest or foreign
exchange  rates  that the  financial  instruments  hedge.  Derivative  financial
instruments that do not qualify as hedges are  marked-to-market  and recorded as
assets  or  liabilities.  Changes  in the fair  values of such  instruments  are
recognized  as other income or other  expense  during the periods in which their
fair  values  change.  See Note H for a  description  of the  specific  types of
derivative transactions in which the Company participates.

       Foreign  currency  translation.  The  financial  statements of subsidiary
entities  whose  functional  currency  is  not  the  United  States  dollar  are
translated to United States  dollars as follows:  all assets and  liabilities at
year-end exchange rates; revenues, costs and expenses at average exchange rates.
Gains and losses from translating  non-United States dollar denominated balances
are recorded  directly in stockholders'  equity.  Foreign  currency  transaction
gains and losses are included in net loss.

                                       48


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       The  exchange  rates  used  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated
financial statements appear below:
<TABLE>
                                                                            December 31,
                                                                     ------------------------
                                                                      1999     1998     1997
                                                                     ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                                  <C>      <C>      <C>
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance sheet...............   .6915    .6534    .6997
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of operations....   .6700    .6740      N/A
</TABLE>

       Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications  have been made to the 1998
and 1997 amounts to conform to the 1999 presentation.

NOTE C.    Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31, 1999 and 1998:
<TABLE>
                                                                     1999                    1998
                                                              -------------------   -----------------------
                                                              Carrying    Fair      Carrying       Fair
                                                               Amount     Value      Amount        Value
                                                              --------   --------   ----------   ----------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
Financial assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $ 34,788   $ 34,788   $   59,221   $   59,221
  Investment in non-affiliated entity - trading securities..  $    -     $    -     $   12,000   $   12,000
  Investment in non-affiliated entity - fair value not
    readily determinable....................................  $ 30,000   $    -     $      -     $      -
Financial liabilities:
  Long-term debt:
     Practicable to estimate fair value:

       Lines of credit......................................  $825,000   $825,000   $1,239,032   $1,239,032
       8-7/8% senior notes due 2005.........................  $150,000   $149,189   $  150,000   $  144,108
       8-1/4% senior notes due 2007.........................  $149,482   $141,903   $  149,414   $  137,826
       6-1/2% senior notes due 2008.........................  $348,550   $297,313   $  348,418   $  284,442
       7-1/5% senior notes due 2028.........................  $249,909   $187,825   $  249,908   $  177,325
     Not practicable to estimate fair value:

       Other long-term debt.................................  $ 22,995   $    -     $   38,493   $      -

Derivative financial  instruments,  including off-balance
  sheet instruments (see Note H):
       Interest rate swaps..................................  $    -     $    -     $      (80)  $      966
       Foreign currency agreements..........................  $ (4,168)  $ (4,168)  $  (15,350)  $  (15,350)
       Commodity price hedges...............................  $  1,672   $(26,213)  $      (41)  $   26,548
       BTU swap agreements..................................  $(13,218)  $(13,218)  $  (15,172)  $  (15,172)
       Other non-hedge commodity derivatives ...............  $(13,259)  $(13,259)  $      -     $      -
</TABLE>
       Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other current assets,
accounts payable and other current liabilities. The carrying amounts approximate
fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

       Investments in non-affiliated entities. During 1999, the Company received
2,307.693  shares  of Prize  Energy  Corp.  ("Prize")  six  percent  convertible
preferred  stock  ("Prize  Preferred"),  having  a  liquidation  preference  and
estimated  fair  value  of  $30.0  million  on the  date  acquired,  in  partial
consideration  for oil and gas  properties,  gas plants and other assets sold to
Prize  (see Note K for  information  specific  to the  assets  sold to,  and the
investment  in,  Prize).  As of December  31,  1999,  Prize was a closely  held,
non-public  entity.  As such,  the fair  value of the  Prize  Preferred  was not
readily  determinable.  During  1999,  the  Company  earned  dividends  of 69.23
additional shares of Prize Preferred.

                                       49


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       On February 9, 2000, Prize announced a merger with Vista Energy Resources
Inc.,  whereby the common  stock of the merged  Prize  entity  began to publicly
trade on the American Stock Exchange.  Associated therewith, the Company's Prize
Preferred was exchanged  for 3,984,197  shares of Prize Series A 6%  Convertible
Preferred Stock ("Prize Senior A Preferred") having a liquidation preference and
stated value of $7.81 per share,  plus cumulative  dividends accrued and unpaid.
Each share of Prize  Series A  Preferred  is  convertible,  at the option of the
holder, into one share of Prize common stock. Under certain circumstances, Prize
may redeem the Prize Series A Preferred  at the stated  value per share,  unless
the Company exercises its conversion  rights. The fair value of the Prize Series
A Preferred is not readily determinable.

       As of December 31, 1998, the Company owned three million shares of common
stock of a closely held, non-  affiliated,  public entity having a fair value of
$12.0  million.  The three  million  shares of common stock were received by the
Company as partial  consideration  for the sale of an exclusive and  irrevocable
option to  purchase  certain  oil and gas  properties  and  other  assets of the
Company.  During 1999,  the Company's  investment in the entity was increased to
four million shares of common stock as a result of liquidation  damages received
by the  Company  from the non-  affiliated  entity  (see Note K for  information
pertaining to the Company's  transactions with the entity).  This investment was
classified by the Company as an investment in trading securities. As a result of
declines  in  the  fair  value  of  this  investment,   other  expenses  in  the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements of Operations and Comprehensive  Loss for
the years ended  December  31, 1999 and 1998,  include  non-cash  mark-to-market
charges of $11.9  million and $.8  million,  respectively.  The Company sold its
investment in the common stock during 1999.

       Long-term debt. The carrying amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's line of credit (see Note D for definitions  and  descriptions of each)
approximates fair value because these instruments bear interest at rates tied to
current market rates.  The fair values of each of the senior note issuances were
based on quoted market prices for each of these issues.

       It was not  practicable  to  estimate  the fair  value of  certain of the
long-term  debt  obligations  because quoted market prices are not available and
the  Company  does not have a current  borrowing  rate which  could be used as a
comparable rate for the stated maturities of the obligations.

       Interest rate swaps, interest rate cap agreements,  foreign currency swap
contracts  and  commodity  price  swap and option  contracts.  The fair value of
interest rate swaps,  interest rate cap agreements,  foreign currency  contracts
and commodity price swap and option contracts are estimated from quotes provided
by the  counterparties  to these instruments and represent the estimated amounts
that the Company would expect to receive or pay to terminate the agreements. See
Note H for a description  of each of these  instruments,  including  whether the
derivative contract qualifies for hedge accounting  treatment or is considered a
speculative derivative instrument.

NOTE D.  Long-term Debt
                                                            December 31,
                                                      -----------------------
                                                         1999         1998
                                                      ----------   ----------
                                                            (in thousands)

Lines of credit.....................................  $  825,000   $1,249,984
8-7/8% senior notes due 2005........................     150,000      150,000
8-1/4% senior notes due 2007 (net of discount)......     149,482      149,414
6-1/2% senior notes due 2008 (net of discount)......     348,550      348,418
7-1/5% senior notes due 2028 (net of discount)......     249,909      249,908
Other...............................................      22,995       27,541
                                                       ---------    ---------
                                                       1,745,936    2,175,265
Less current maturities.............................         828      306,521
                                                       ---------    ---------
                                                      $1,745,108   $1,868,744
                                                       =========    =========

                                       50


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       Maturities  of  long-term  debt at  December  31, 1999 are as follows (in
thousands):

          2000............................................  $    828
          2001............................................  $    -
          2002............................................  $825,000
          2003............................................  $    518
          2004............................................  $    571
          Thereafter......................................  $919,019

       Lines of credit.  As of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  has a credit
facility  (the "Credit  Facility")  with a syndicate of banks (the "Banks") with
commitments  aggregating  $939.6  million  and  outstanding  borrowings  of $825
million.  Advances  under the Credit  Facility  are required to be paid no later
than August 7, 2002.

       Advances  on the  Credit  Facility  bear  interest  at the  option of the
Company, based on (a) the prime rate of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. (8.50 percent
at December 31, 1999), (b) a Eurodollar rate (substantially  equal to the London
Interbank  Offered  Rate  ("LIBOR"))  adjusted  for the reserve  requirement  as
determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve System with respect
to transactions in Eurocurrency liabilities ("LIBOR Rate"), or (c) a competitive
bid rate as quoted by the lending banks  electing to  participate  pursuant to a
request by the Company.  The interest  rate on LIBOR Rate  advances  includes an
interest rate margin component that is determined by a grid that is based on the
Company's  senior  unsecured  long-term  public debt rating.  As of December 31,
1999,  the future  maximum  interest rate margin on LIBOR Rate advances is 187.5
basis points.

       The  Credit  Facility   contains  various  debt   convenants,   the  most
restrictive  being the  maintenance  of a ratio of  outstanding  Company debt to
earnings before interest,  depletion,  depreciation,  amortization,  income tax,
exploration  and  abandonment  and other non-cash  expenses  ("EBITDAX")  not to
exceed 4.25 to one through  March 31,  2000,  and 3.5 to one  thereafter.  Other
restrictive  compliance   requirements  include  limits  on  the  incurrence  of
additional  indebtedness  and  certain  types of liens  and  restrictions  as to
merger, sale or transfer of assets and transactions  without the Banks' consent.
The  Company's  obligations  under the Credit  Facility are also  guaranteed  by
Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA, Inc.  ("Pioneer  USA") and certain other United
States  subsidiaries,  and are  secured by a pledge of a portion of the  capital
stock of certain non-United States subsidiaries.

       During the first  quarter of 1999,  the  Company  and the Banks  executed
amendments to the Credit  Facility that  provided for the  consolidation  of the
Company's $276 million  Canadian  subsidiary  term loan with and into the Credit
Facility.  The  amendments  also  provided for a $410 million  reduction in loan
commitments  by December  31,  1999,  an increase in the maximum  interest  rate
margin  on  LIBOR  Rate  advances  to  250  basis  points  including  commitment
utilization fees and the debt covenants  outlined above. The Company met each of
the requirements of the amended Credit Facility during 1999.

       Senior  notes.   The  Company's   senior  notes  are  general   unsecured
obligations  ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured
indebtedness  of the Company and are senior in right of payment to all  existing
and future subordinated indebtedness of the Company. In addition, the Company is
a holding  company that  conducts all of its  operations  through  subsidiaries;
consequently,  the senior notes issuances are  structurally  subordinated to all
obligations  of its  subsidiaries.  Pioneer  USA has fully  and  unconditionally
guaranteed the senior note issuances.  Interest on the Company's senior notes is
payable semi-annually.

       Extraordinary  items. On December 18, 1997, the Company  completed a cash
tender  offer for two senior  subordinated  note  issuances  (the  "Subordinated
Notes")  assumed  as part of the merger  with Mesa.  During  1997,  the  Company
redeemed  approximately 91 percent of the 11-5/8% senior  subordinated  discount
notes due 2006 and  approximately 98 percent of the 10-5/8% senior  subordinated
notes  due 2006  (the  "10-5/8% Notes")  for a  purchase  price of  $829.90  and

                                       51


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

$1,171.40,  respectively,  per $1,000 tendered plus any interest  accrued on the
10-5/8% Notes (the "Tender Offer"). As a result, the Company paid $574.5 million
for the principal amount tendered on the Subordinated  Notes,  including related
fees, and $15.7 million of accrued interest on the 10-5/8% Notes. As a result of
the  Tender  Offer,  the  Company  recognized  an  extraordinary  loss on  early
extinguishment  of debt of $11.9  million  (net of a related tax benefit of $6.4
million)  during the fourth quarter of 1997.  The Company  financed the purchase
price of the Subordinated  Notes tendered in the offer with borrowings under its
Credit Facility Agreements.

       In addition to the  extraordinary  loss  resulting from the Tender Offer,
the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for
the year ended  December 31, 1997  includes a $1.5 million (net of a related tax
benefit of $800 thousand) non-cash charge for an extraordinary loss on the early
extinguishment  of debt  resulting from the merger of Parker & Parsley and Mesa.
This  extraordinary  loss relates to capitalized  issuance fees  associated with
Parker & Parsley's  previously  existing bank credit facility which was replaced
by the Credit Facility .

       Interest  expense.  The  following  amounts have been charged to interest
expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:
<TABLE>
                                                                  1999       1998       1997
                                                                --------   --------   ---------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
   Cash payments for interest................................   $150,929   $135,811   $  65,740
   Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans..      8,401     10,688       7,348
   Amortization of capitalized loan fees.....................      2,686      1,142       1,177
   Net change in accruals....................................      8,328     16,644       3,285
                                                                 -------    -------     -------
                                                                $170,344   $164,285   $  77,550
                                                                 =======    =======    ========
</TABLE>
NOTE E.    Related Party Transactions

       Activities  with  affiliated  partnerships.   The  Company,  through  its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries,   has  in  the  past  sponsored  certain  affiliated
partnerships,  including 35 public and nine private  drilling  partnerships  and
three public  income  partnerships,  all of which were formed  primarily for the
purpose of drilling and completing wells or acquiring producing  properties.  In
accordance  with the terms of the  partnership  agreements  and the  related tax
partnership agreements of the affiliated partnerships,  the Company participated
in the activities of the sponsored  partnerships  on a promoted  basis. In 1992,
the Company  discontinued  sponsoring public and private oil and gas development
drilling and income partnerships.

       During  each of  1994,  1993  and  1992,  the  Company  formed  a  Direct
Investment  Partnership for the purpose of permitting  selected key employees to
invest directly,  on an unpromoted basis, in wells that the Company drills.  The
partners in the Direct Investment Partnerships formed in 1994, 1993 and 1992 pay
and receive  approximately  .337  percent,  1.5375  percent  and 1.865  percent,
respectively,  of the costs and revenues  attributable to the Company's interest
in the wells that such Direct Investment Partnership  participates.  The Company
discontinued the formation of Direct Investment Partnerships in 1995.

       The Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

       The  activities  with  affiliated  partnerships  are  summarized  for the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997:

                                       52


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
<TABLE>
                                                                           1999     1998     1997
                                                                          ------   ------   ------
                                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                                       <C>      <C>      <C>
  Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges  in accordance
    with standard industry operating agreements........................   $9,059   $9,021   $8,547
  Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses.................   $  744   $  739   $1,476
</TABLE>

     Prize divestiture. As further disclosed in Note K, the Company sold certain
oil and gas  properties,  gas  plants  and other  assets to Prize  during  1999.
Associated  with these  transactions,  the Company  received  $245.0  million of
proceeds,  including the  2,307.693  shares of Prize  Preferred  valued at $30.0
million.  The board of directors of Prize is comprised of six  directors,  which
include Mr. Philip P. Smith, the Chief Executive Officer;  Mr. Kenneth A. Hersh;
Mr. Lon C. Kile; two members of the Company's  executive  management  committee;
and, a member who is  unrelated  to the  Company.  Messrs.  Smith and Hersh were
members of the Board of Directors of the Company and  resigned  their  positions
with the Company  during the second  quarter of 1999.  Additionally,  Mr. Lon C.
Kile resigned his position as Executive  Vice President of the Company to accept
the position of President and Chief Operating  Officer of Prize. The sale of the
assets to Prize was initiated  through an auction process which, upon receipt of
Prize's initial offer, was placed under the supervision of a special independent
committee  (comprised of outside directors  unrelated to Prize) of the Company's
Board of Directors. The independent committee reviewed and considered all offers
presented to the Company for the purchase of the assets  acquired by Prize.  The
Prize offer was approved by the special independent  committee as being the best
offer presented (see Notes C and K for information pertaining to the divestiture
of assets to Prize and the Company's investment in Prize).

     Consulting  fee.  Effective  January 1, 1999,  the Company  entered into an
amended and restated  agreement with Rainwater,  Inc.,  whereby the Company will
pay Rainwater,  Inc. $300,000 per year and reimburse Rainwater, Inc. for certain
expenses in consideration for certain consulting and financial analysis services
provided to the Company by Rainwater, Inc. and its representatives.  The term of
this  agreement  expires on  December  31,  2003.  During  1999,  1998 and 1997,
consulting  and  financial  analysis  services  provided to the Company  totaled
$325,000,  $400,000  and  $100,000;  respectively,  plus  expenses.  Richard  E.
Rainwater,  who  serves  on the  Company's  Board  of  Directors,  is  the  sole
shareholder of Rainwater, Inc.

NOTE F.    Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

       Deferred  compensation  retirement  plan.  Effective  August 8, 1997, the
Compensation   Committee  of  the  Board  of   Directors   approved  a  deferred
compensation  retirement  plan for the officers and certain key employees of the
Company. Each officer and key employee is allowed to contribute up to 25 percent
of their base salary.  The Company will then provide a matching  contribution of
100 percent of the  officer's  and key  employee's  contribution  limited to the
first 10  percent of the  officer's  base  salary  and eight  percent of the key
employee's base salary. The Company's matching contribution vests immediately. A
trust fund has been  established by the Company to accumulate the  contributions
made under this retirement plan.

       In December 1998, the Company  received  notification  that an investment
fund group had acquired  beneficial  ownership of greater than 20 percent of the
Company's  common  stock.  Pursuant to the then existing  provisions  within the
Company's  deferred  compensation  retirement plan, if a third party acquired 20
percent  or more  of the  Company's  common  stock  certain  change  of  control
provisions  contained within the plan were triggered.  Accordingly,  in December
1998, the  Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors  determined  that a
change of control had occurred, effective September 30, 1998, under the deferred
compensation  retirement  plan.  Consequently,  all of the  contributions to the
deferred compensation retirement plan from August 1997 to December 15, 1998 were
immediately vested and distributed.

                                       53


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       401(k) plan. The Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan (the
"401(k)  Plan") is a defined  contribution  pension plan  established  under the
Internal Revenue Code Section 401. All regular full-time and part-time employees
of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k) Plan on the first day
of the month following their date of hire. Participants may contribute an amount
of not less than two  percent  nor more than 12 percent of their  annual  salary
into  the  401(k)  Plan.  Each  participant's   account  is  credited  with  the
participant's  contributions  and an allocation  of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.
Participants are immediately fully vested in their account balances.

       Matching plan. The Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. Matching Plan (the
"Matching Plan") is a money purchase pension plan which accumulates  benefits to
participants.  All regular  full-time  and  part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA
become  eligible to  participate  in the  Matching  Plan  concurrent  with their
eligibility to  participate in the 401(k) Plan. All Matching Plan  contributions
are  made  in  cash  by  Pioneer  USA  in  amounts  equal  to 200  percent  of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each participant's  account is credited with their Matching  Contribution and an
allocation of Matching Plan earnings. Participants proportionately vest in their
account  balances  over a four year  period,  at the end of which they are fully
vested in their account balances. During the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $508 thousand,  $742
thousand and $497 thousand, respectively, as a result of Matching Contributions.

       Long-term  incentive  plan. In August 1997,  the  Company's  stockholders
approved a new long-term incentive plan (the "Long-Term  Incentive Plan"), which
provides  for the  granting of  incentive  awards in the form of stock  options,
stock appreciation rights,  performance units and restricted stock to directors,
officers and employees of the Company. The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for
the  issuance of a maximum  number of shares of common stock equal to 10 percent
of the total number of shares of common stock equivalents  outstanding minus the
total number of shares of common stock subject to outstanding awards on the date
of  calculation  under  any  stock-based  plan for the  directors,  officers  or
employees of the Company.

       Pursuant to the provisions within the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan,
if a third party  acquires  40 percent or more of the  Company's  common  stock,
certain change of control provisions contained within the plan are triggered. In
December 1998, the Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors  determined
that a change of control had occurred,  effective  September 30, 1998, under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan.  Consequently,  all awards granted under the Long-Term
Incentive  Plan since its  inception in August 1997 through  September  30, 1998
were immediately vested and any restrictions were canceled.

       The following table calculates the number of shares or options  available
for grant under the Company's  Long- Term Incentive Plan as of December 31, 1999
and 1998:
<TABLE>
                                                                                        December 31,
                                                                                     1999           1998
                                                                                 -----------   --------------
<S>                                                                              <C>           <C>
  Shares outstanding..........................................................   100,339,583   100,296,223
  Options outstanding.........................................................     4,832,412     2,939,183
                                                                                 -----------   -----------
                                                                                 105,171,995   103,235,406
                                                                                 ===========   ===========
  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan...........    10,517,200    10,323,541
  Less:  Outstanding awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan....................    (4,832,412)   (2,939,183)
         Outstanding options under Mesa 1991 stock option plan................      (149,547)     (407,284)
         Outstanding options under Mesa 1996 incentive plan...................      (372,855)     (422,854)
         Outstanding options under Parker & Parsley long-term incentive plan..      (887,075)     (810,709)
                                                                                 -----------   -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant...................................     4,275,311     5,743,511
                                                                                 ===========   ===========
</TABLE>
                                       54


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

Restricted stock awards

       Non-employee   directors.  On  May  20,  1999,  the  Company's  Long-Term
Incentive Plan was amended to eliminate the automatic award of restricted  stock
to  non-employee  directors in payment of their annual retainer fees. The effect
of the  amendment  was to provide  the  Compensation  Committee  of the Board of
Directors  with the  authority to determine  what awards,  if any,  non-employee
directors  will  receive  and  what  the  terms  of  those  awards  will be and,
alternatively,  to award stock options to  non-employee  directors in payment of
their annual  retainer fees.  During 1999, the Company  awarded stock options to
the non-employee directors in payment of their annual retainer fees. The options
awarded were determined by dividing the annual retainer fees by the value of one
option on the last  business  day of the  month in which  the fee was paid.  The
option values were determined using the Black-Scholes  method (see "Stock Option
Awards",  below). Prior to this amendment, on the last business day of the month
in which the annual meeting of the  stockholders  of the Company was held,  each
non-employee director  automatically  received an award of common stock equal to
50 percent of their annual  retainer  fee.  These awards were made in lieu of an
amount of cash equal to 50 percent of the annual  retainer  fee. In May 1998 and
August 1997,  the Company  issued an aggregate  17,306  shares and 5,939 shares,
respectively,  to non-employee directors pursuant to this arrangement.The shares
of common stock awarded pursuant to the Long-Term  Incentive Plan are subject to
transfer  restrictions  that lapse on the first  anniversary  of the date of the
award.

       Officers and key employees. The Company, at its sole discretion,  may pay
annual bonuses awarded to selected officers and key employees either 100 percent
in cash or  partially  in cash and  partially  in the form of  restricted  stock
awards under the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. The Company has  established  target
bonus  levels  for  each  officer  and key  employee.  Based  upon  Company  and
individual  performance  during the year,  each  officer or key employee has the
potential to earn more or less than their  target bonus level.  The bonus awards
are  determined in the quarter  following  the  Company's  December 31 year-end.
During 1997, the Company awarded restricted stock pursuant to this program.  The
1997 awards were limited to one-half of each officer's or key employee's  target
bonus level,  and the remainder of the officer's or key employee's  annual bonus
was paid in cash.  The number of shares of  restricted  stock that were  awarded
pursuant to the annual bonus  program  were based on the closing  sales price of
the  Company's  common stock on the day  immediately  preceding  the date of the
award.  Ownership of the restricted stock awarded vested one year after the date
it was issued,  subject to transfer restrictions that lapsed on one-third of the
shares  on each of the  first,  second  and third  anniversaries  of the date of
grant.  Each recipient of restricted stock also received an amount of cash equal
to the estimated federal income taxes payable as a result of the receipt of such
award. On February 9, 1998, the Company awarded an aggregate of 81,300 shares of
restricted  stock at a price  of  $22.375  pursuant  to the  1997  annual  bonus
program.  The Company  elected not to award any restricted  stock in conjunction
with the 1999 or 1998 annual bonus programs.

       During 1998 and 1997,  the Company made other  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan
awards of 38,480 and 470,975 shares,  respectively,  to certain officers and key
employees.  The  shares  awarded  are  subject to  vesting  period and  transfer
restrictions.

Stock Option Awards

       The Company has a program of awarding  semi-annual  stock  options to its
officers and  employees and annual stock  options to its  directors,  as part of
their  annual  compensation.  This  program  provides  for  annual  awards at an
exercise price based upon the closing sales price of the Company's  common stock
on the day prior to the date of grant. The awards vest over an 18 month or three
year  schedule and provide a five year  exercise  period from each vesting date.
The  Company  granted  1,985,193;  2,146,553  and  1,716,625  options  under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                                       55


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       Other stock  based  plans.  Prior to the merger with Mesa,  both Parker &
Parsley  and Mesa had  long-term  incentive  plans  (Parker & Parsley  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan,  1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa and the 1996  Incentive Plan of
Mesa) in place that allowed Parker & Parsley and Mesa to grant incentive  awards
similar to the provisions of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon consummation of
the merger  between Parker & Parsley and Mesa, all awards under these plans were
assumed by the Company with the provision  that no additional  awards be granted
under these plans.

       The  information  presented in the remainder of this footnote  represents
the awards  granted  under the  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan since its approval in
August  1997,  the awards  granted in 1997 under the Parker & Parsley  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan,  and the  assumption in August 1997 of the  outstanding  option
awards  granted under the 1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa and the 1996  Incentive
Plan of Mesa.

       Restricted  stock awards.  The following  table reflects the  outstanding
restricted stock awards and activity related thereto for 1999, 1998 and 1997:
<TABLE>
                                        For the Year Ended       For the Year Ended       For the Year Ended
                                         December 31, 1999        December 31, 1998        December 31, 1997
                                      -----------------------  -----------------------  --------------------
                                                  Weighted                Weighted                Weighted
                                       Number      Average      Number     Average     Number      Average
                                      of Shares     Price     of Shares    Price      of Shares     Price
                                      ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   --------
<S>                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Restricted stock awards:
  Outstanding, beginning of year..          -     $     -       476,914   $   37.88      79,819   $  23.35
  Shares granted..................        6,200   $   29.56     137,086   $   21.13     506,786   $  37.43
  Shares forfeited................          -     $     -       (12,585)  $   35.67         -     $    -
  Lapse of restrictions...........       (6,200)  $   29.56    (601,415)  $   34.11    (109,691)  $  25.66
                                      ---------               ---------               ---------
  Outstanding, end of year........          -     $     -           -     $     -       476,914   $  37.88
                                      =========               =========               =========
</TABLE>
       Stock   option   awards.   The   Company   applies  APB  25  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the Company's net losses and net losses per share would have been
adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                            For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                           ---------------------------------
                                              1999        1998       1997
                                           ---------   ---------   ---------
                                        (in thousands, except per share amounts)

 Net loss................................  $(25,269)   $(775,349)  $(893,729)
 Basic and diluted net loss per share....  $   (.25)   $   (7.75)  $  (17.20)

       Under SFAS 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the date of grant  using  the  Black-  Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997:

                                             For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                               ---------------------------
                                                 1999      1998      1997
                                               -------   -------   -------
Risk-free interest rate....................      6.59%     5.45%     5.72%
Expected life..............................    6 years   6 years   7 years
Expected volatility........................        48%       36%       36%
Expected dividend yield....................        -        .56%      .30%


                                       56


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       A summary of the  Company's  stock  option plans as of December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, and changes during the years ended on those dates,  are presented
below:
<TABLE>
                                          For the Year Ended       For the Year Ended        For the Year Ended
                                           December 31, 1999        December 31, 1998         December 31, 1997
                                       -----------------------   ------------------------  ---------------------
                                                     Weighted                 Weighted                 Weighted
                                          Number      Average      Number      Average      Number      Average
                                        of Shares      Price     of Shares      Price     of Shares      Price
                                        ----------   ---------   ----------   ---------   ----------   --------
<S>                                     <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding, beginning of year.......  4,580,030   $   24.83    3,541,145   $   31.63    1,362,629   $  24.04
    Options granted....................  1,945,135   $    9.10    2,146,553   $   19.22    1,744,704   $  34.00
    Options assumed....................        -     $     -            -     $     -        928,478   $  33.97
    Options forfeited..................   (256,576)  $   38.29   (1,106,835)  $   35.75       (1,500)  $  21.33
    Options exercised..................    (26,700)  $    5.81         (833)  $   14.25     (493,166)  $  23.45
                                        ----------               ----------               ----------
  Outstanding, end of year.............  6,241,889   $   19.45    4,580,030   $   24.83    3,541,145   $  31.63
                                        ==========               ==========               ==========
  Exercisable at end of year...........  4,038,341   $   24.62    3,937,113   $   26.60    1,824,520   $  29.37
                                        ==========               ==========               ==========
Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year.............. $     5.14               $     8.21               $    16.10
                                         =========                =========                =========
</TABLE>

       The following  table  summarizes  information  about the Company's  stock
options outstanding at December 31, 1999:
<TABLE>
                                     Options Outstanding                           Options Exercisable
                  -----------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------
                       Number         Weighted Average      Weighted                                Weighted
   Range of        Outstanding at        Remaining           Average       Number Exercisable        Average
Exercise Prices   December 31, 1999   Contractual Life   Exercise Price   at December 31, 1999   Exercise Price
- ---------------   -----------------   ----------------   --------------   --------------------   --------------
<S>               <C>                 <C>                <C>              <C>                    <C>
   $   5-11           1,251,868           6.4 years         $   7.59               40,210           $  10.82
   $  12-18           2,114,621           5.0 years         $  14.76            1,122,731           $  16.28
   $  19-26             844,628           3.7 years         $  22.51              844,628           $  22.51
   $  27-30           1,932,370           3.5 years         $  29.65            1,932,370           $  29.65
   $  31-82              98,402           4.4 years         $  44.86               98,402           $  44.86
                    -----------                                                ----------
                      6,241,889                                                 4,038,341
                    ===========                                                ==========
</TABLE>

       During 1999,  the Company  recognized $.2 million of costs related to its
incentive plans in other expense.  The Company  recognized $3.9 million and $3.3
million  in  general  and  administrative  compensation  expense  related to its
Incentive  Plans during 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  During 1998,  the Company
also recognized $9.6 million in other expense related to restricted stock awards
that were immediately vested as a result of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan change
in control  provisions and $3.1 million of  reorganization  costs related to its
Incentive Plans.

NOTE G.    Commitments and Contingencies

       Severance  agreements.  The Company has entered into severance agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries  and bonuses for the  Company's  officers are set  independent  of this
agreement by the Compensation  Committee for the parent company officers and the
Management  Committee for subsidiary  company officers and key employees.  These
committees can grant increases or reductions to base salary at their discretion.
The current  annual  salaries for the parent  company  officers,  the subsidiary
company  officers  and  key  employees   covered  under  such  agreements  total
approximately $8.2 million.

       Either  the  Company  or  the  officer/key  employee  may  terminate  the
officer's or key  employee's  employment  under the  severance  agreement at any
time.  The Company  must pay the officer or key  employee an amount equal to one
year's base salary if employment is terminated because of death, disability,  or
normal  retirement.  The Company must pay the officer or key  employee an amount

                                       57


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

equal to one year's base salary and continue health insurance for the officer or
key  employee  and  his or her  immediate  family  for one  year if the  Company
terminates employment without cause or if the officer or key employee terminates
employment  with good reason,  which occurs when  reductions in the officer's or
key employee's base annual salary exceed  specified limits or if, in the case of
officers,  the officer is demoted to an officer position junior to their current
officer position or to a non-officer position. If within one year after a change
in control of the Company,  the Company  terminates  the officer or key employee
without cause or if the officer or key employee terminates  employment with good
reason,  the Company  must pay parent  company  officers an amount equal to 2.99
times the sum of the  officer's  base salary plus target  bonus for the year and
subsidiary  company  officers and key employees an amount equal to two times the
officer's or key employee's  base salary and continue  health  insurance for the
officer or key employee and his immediate family for one year. If the officer or
key employee terminates  employment with the Company without good reason between
six  months and one year after a change in  control,  or at any time  within one
year after a change in control if the  officer or key  employee  is  required to
move,  then the  Company  must pay the officer or key  employee  one year's base
salary and continue health  insurance for the officer or key employee and his or
her immediate family for one year.  Officers and key employees are also entitled
to additional  payments for certain tax liabilities  that may apply to severance
payments following a change in control.

       Indemnifications.  The Company has  indemnified its directors and certain
of its officers, employees and agents with respect to claims and damages arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

       Legal actions.  The Company is party to various legal actions  incidental
to its business, including, but not limited to, the proceedings described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-  quarter  basis and will  adjust the
litigation  reserve as  appropriate  to reflect the then  current  status of its
litigation.

       Masterson.  In February 1992, the current lessors of an oil and gas lease
(the "Gas  Lease")  dated April 30,  1955,  between  R.B.  Masterson  et al., as
lessor,  and Colorado  Interstate Gas Company  ("CIG"),  as lessee,  sued CIG in
Federal  District  Court in Amarillo,  Texas,  claiming  that CIG had  underpaid
royalties due under the Gas Lease.  Under the agreements  with CIG, the Company,
as successor to Mesa, has an entitlement to gas produced from the Gas Lease.  In
August 1992, CIG filed a third-party  complaint against the Company for any such
royalty  underpayment which may be allocable to the Company.  Plaintiffs alleged
that the underpayment was the result of CIG's use of an improper gas sales price
upon which to  calculate  royalties  and that the proper  price should have been
determined pursuant to a "favored-nations"  clause in a July 1, 1967,  amendment
to the Gas Lease.  The  plaintiffs  also sought a declaration by the court as to
the proper price to be used for calculating future royalties.

       The  plaintiffs  alleged  royalty  underpayments  of  approximately  $500
million  (including  interest at 10 percent)  dating from July 1, 1967. In March
1995, the court made certain pretrial rulings that eliminated approximately $400
million of the plaintiff's  claims (which related to periods prior to October 1,
1989),  but which also reduced a number of the Company's  defenses.  The Company
and CIG filed  stipulations  with the court  whereby the Company would have been
liable for  between 50 percent  and 60  percent,  depending  on the time  period
covered,  of an adverse judgment against CIG or post-February 1988 underpayments
of royalties.

       On March  22,  1995,  a jury  trial  began and on May 4,  1995,  the jury
returned its  verdict.  Among its  findings,  the jury  determined  that CIG had
underpaid  royalties  for the period after  September 30, 1989, in the amount of
approximately    $140,000.    Although   the   plaintiffs    argued   that   the
"favored-nations"  clause  entitled  them to be paid for all of their gas at the
highest price  voluntarily paid by CIG to any other lessor,  the jury determined
that the  plaintiffs  were estopped  from  claiming  that the  "favored-nations"

                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

clause provides for other than a pricing-scheme  to pricing- scheme  comparison.
In  light  of  this  determination,  and  the  plaintiff's  stipulation  that  a
pricing-scheme  to  pricing-scheme  comparison  would not result in any "trigger
prices" or damages,  defendants  asked the court for a judgment that  plaintiffs
take nothing. The court, on June 7, 1995, entered final judgment that plaintiffs
recover no monetary damages. The plaintiffs filed a motion for new trial on June
22, 1995. The court, on July 18, 1997, denied plaintiffs' motion. The plaintiffs
have appealed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals,  where oral  arguments were
heard in December 1998. The Court's decision  regarding this litigation could be
announced at any time.

       On June 7, 1996, the plaintiffs filed a separate suit against CIG and the
Company in state court in Amarillo,  Texas,  similarly claiming  underpayment of
royalties  under  the  "favored-nations"  clause,  but  based  upon  the  above-
described pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme  comparison on a well-by-well monthly
basis.  The plaintiffs also claim  underpayment of royalties since June 7, 1995,
under the  "favored-nations"  clause  based upon  either the  pricing-scheme  to
pricing-scheme  method or their  previously  alleged  higher price  method.  The
Company  believes it has several  defenses to this action and intends to contest
it vigorously. The Company has not yet determined the amount of damages, if any,
that would be payable if such action was determined adversely to the Company.

       The federal court in the  above-referenced  first suit issued an order on
July 29, 1996, which stayed the state suit pending the plaintiffs' resolution of
the first suit.

       Based on the jury  verdict  and  final  judgment,  the  Company  does not
currently  expect the ultimate  resolution of either of these lawsuits to have a
material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

       Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows
a "severance,  production or similar" tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the  maximum  lawful  price for  natural  gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy
Regulatory Commission ("FERC") ruling that Kansas ad valorem tax was such a tax,
Mesa  collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition to the  otherwise  maximum
lawful  price.  The FERC's  ruling was  appealed to the United  States  Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia ("D.C.  Circuit"),  which held in June 1988
that the FERC failed to provide a reasoned  basis for its  findings and remanded
the case to the FERC for further consideration.

       On December 1, 1993, the FERC issued an order reversing its prior ruling,
but  limiting  the effect of its  decision to Kansas ad valorem  taxes for sales
made on or after June 28, 1988.  The FERC  clarified the  effective  date of its
decision by an order dated May 18, 1994. The order  clarified that the effective
date applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28,  1988,  not sales made on or
after that date. Numerous parties filed appeals on the FERC's action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various  natural gas  producers  challenged  the FERC's  orders on two
grounds: (1) that the Kansas ad valorem tax, properly  understood,  does qualify
for  reimbursement  under the NGPA;  and (2) the FERC's  ruling  should,  in any
event,  have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties  challenged  the FERC's
orders  on  the  grounds  that  the  FERC's  ruling  should  have  been  applied
retroactively  to December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment  of the NGPA and
producers should have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

       The D.C.  Circuit issued its decision on August 2, 1996, which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production  since October 4, 1983 as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were  denied on  November  6, 1996.  Various  natural  gas  producers
subsequently  filed a  petition  for writ of  certiori  with the  United  States
Supreme Court  seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills
rendered on or after June 28, 1988 (the  effective date  originally  selected by
the FERC).  Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori
seeking to impose refund liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were
denied on May 12, 1997.

       The Company and other  producers  filed petitions for adjustment with the
FERC on June 24, 1997.  The Company is seeking  waiver or set-off from FERC with
respect  to that  portion  of the  refund  associated  with (i) non-  recoupable
royalties,  (ii)  non-recoupable  Kansas property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher prices collected, and (iii)

                                       59


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

interest for all periods.  On September 10, 1997, FERC denied this request,  and
on October  10,  1997,  the  Company  and other  producers  filed a request  for
rehearing.  Pipelines  were given  until  November  10,  1997 to file  claims on
refunds sought from  producers and refunds  totaling  approximately  $30 million
were made against the Company. The Company is unable at this time to predict the
final  outcome of this matter or the amount,  if any,  that will  ultimately  be
refunded.  As of  December  31,  1999 and 1998,  the Company had set aside $31.3
million and $29.7  million,  respectively,  including  accrued  interest,  in an
escrow account and had corresponding obligations for this litigation recorded in
other current  liabilities in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets. In
addition, during 1998, the Company paid $1.4 million to a pipeline in settlement
of the pipeline's share of the total initial obligation.

       Lease  agreements.  The Company  leases  equipment and office  facilities
under  noncancellable  operating  leases on which  rental  expense for the years
ended  December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 was  approximately  $6.9 million,  $8.9
million and $3.7 million,  respectively.  Future minimum lease commitments under
noncancellable  operating  leases  at  December  31,  1999  are as  follows  (in
thousands):

       2000.........................................     $   6,765
       2001.........................................     $   5,684
       2002.........................................     $   4,517
       2003.........................................     $   4,070
       2004.........................................     $   3,549
       Thereafter...................................     $   3,388

NOTE H.     Derivative Financial Instruments

       The Company uses  derivative  financial  instruments  to manage  interest
rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity price risks. The Company is exposed to
credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties.  The Company
anticipates,  however,  that such  counterparties  will be able to fully satisfy
their obligations under the contracts. The Company does not obtain collateral or
other  security  to support  financial  instruments  subject to credit  risk but
monitors the credit standing of the counterparties.

       The Company is a party to certain derivative  financial  instruments that
do  not  qualify  for  hedge   accounting   treatment.   Such   instruments  are
marked-to-market  at the end of each  reporting  period during their  respective
lives. The associated  effects on the Company's  results of operations in future
periods  could be  significant.  Those  instruments  not  qualifying  for  hedge
accounting are designated under the heading "Mark-to-Market Derivatives" below.

Hedge Derivatives

       Interest rate swap  agreements.  During 1996, the Company  entered into a
series of interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate  amount of $150 million
with four  counterparties.  These  agreements,  which had a term of three years,
effectively  converted a portion of the  Company's  fixed-rate  borrowings  into
floating-rate  obligations.  The  weighted  average  fixed rate  received by the
Company over the term of these  agreements was 6.62 percent,  while the weighted
average variable rate paid by the Company for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 was 5.16 percent, 5.75 percent and 5.78 percent, respectively. The
interest rate swap  agreements  expired in May and June,  1999.  The Company was
also party to an interest rate swap  agreement  for an aggregate  amount of $250
million with one  counterparty.  This  agreement,  which expired in August 1998,
effectively  converted a portion of the Company's floating- rate borrowings into
fixed-rate obligations.  The effect of this agreement was to provide the Company
with an  interest  rate of 6.23  percent on $250  million  in nominal  principal
amount for the term of the agreement.  The accompanying  Consolidated Statements
of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997 include a reduction in interest expense of $849 thousand, $356 thousand
and $847 thousand, respectively, associated with these rate swap agreements.

                                       60


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       During 1997, the Company  entered into two agreements with a counterparty
that  obligated  the  Company to sell United  States  Treasury  securities  at a
designated  point in the future.  The face amount of the United States  Treasury
securities  was $300 million at interest rates ranging from 6.05 percent to 6.33
percent.  These  agreements  effectively  converted  a portion of the  Company's
floating-rate  borrowings  into  fixed-rate  obligations.  In January 1998,  the
Company  terminated these agreements at a cost of $16.8 million.  This amount is
being amortized over the life of the Company's Credit Facility.

       Commodity hedges.  The Company utilizes various swap and option contracts
to (i) reduce the effect of the  volatility of price changes on the  commodities
the Company  produces  and sells,  (ii)  support the  Company's  annual  capital
budgeting  and  expenditure  plans and  (iii)  lock in  prices  to  protect  the
economics related to certain capital projects.

       Crude Oil. All material  sales  contracts  governing  the  Company's  oil
production  have been tied  directly or  indirectly  to the New York  Mercantile
Exchange ("NYMEX") prices.

       The  following  table  sets  forth the  Company's  outstanding  oil hedge
contracts as of December 31, 1999. During the first quarter of 2000, the Company
terminated June 2000 through  December 2000 swap contracts for notional  volumes
of 9,000 Bbls per day and the 2001 collar  contracts (and  associated sold puts)
for  notional  volumes of 8,000 Bbls per day, at a total cost of $16.1  million.
Including  these  costs,  the Company  has  deferred  oil hedge  losses of $14.3
million  and  $3.7  million  that  will be  recognized  during  2000  and  2001,
respectively.
<TABLE>
                                                                                                       Yearly
                                            First         Second         Third          Fourth      Outstanding
                                         Quarter         Quarter        Quarter         Quarter         Average
                                     -------------   -------------   ------------   --------------   -------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>              <C>
Daily oil production:
   2000 - Swap Contracts

     Volume (Bbl)..................          9,626           9,538          9,478            9,435           9,519
     Price per Bbl.................  $       16.50   $       16.51   $      16.51    $       16.52   $       16.51

   2000 - Collar Contracts *
     Volume (Bbl)..................          7,713           7,714          7,898            7,977           7,826
     Price per Bbl.................  $17.45-$20.66   $17.44-$20.66   $17.48-$20.71   $17.50-$20.74   $17.47-$20.69

   2001 - Collar Contracts**
     Volume (Bbl)..................          8,000           8,000          8,000            8,000           8,000
     Price per Bbl.................  $18.44-$21.57   $18.44-$21.57   $18.44-$21.57   $18.44-$21.57   $18.44-$21.57
</TABLE>
- -------------

*     Concurrent with the Company's  purchase of the year 2000 collar contracts,
      the Company sold year 2000 put contracts to the counterparties for average
      notional  contract  volumes of 6,997  Bbls per day at a  weighted  average
      index price of $14.29 per Bbl. Consequently,  if the weighted average year
      2000 index price falls below  $14.29 per Bbl, the Company will receive the
      weighted average index price for the notional contract volumes, plus $3.18
      per Bbl. The counterparties have the contractual right to extend contracts
      for  notional  volumes of 5,000 Bbls per day through year 2001 at weighted
      average per Bbl strike prices of $17.00 - $20.09 for the collar  contracts
      and $14.00 for the put contracts.

**    Concurrent with the Company's  purchase of the year 2001 collar contracts,
      the  Company  sold  2001 put  contracts  to the  counterparties  for equal
      notional  contract volumes at a weighted average index price of $15.44 per
      Bbl.  Consequently,  if the  weighted  average year 2001 index price falls
      below $15.44 per Bbl, the Company will receive the weighted  average index
      price for the notional contract volumes, plus $3.00 per Bbl.

                                       61


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       The Company  reports  average oil prices per Bbl including the effects of
oil quality,  gathering and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's oil prices,  both realized
(excluding  hedge  results) and reported,  and the net effects of settlements of
oil price hedges to revenue:
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                    ---------------------------
                                                      1999      1998      1997
                                                    -------   -------   -------
  Average price reported per Bbl..................  $ 15.36   $ 13.08   $ 18.51
  Average price realized per Bbl..................  $ 16.23   $ 11.93   $ 19.09
  Addition (reduction) to revenue (in millions)...  $ (13.4)  $  24.8   $  (7.9)

        Natural Gas Liquids.  During the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
the Company did not enter into any natural  gas  liquids  hedge  contracts.  The
Company reported and realized an average natural gas liquids price of $11.64 per
Bbl during the year ended December 31, 1999.  During the year ended December 31,
1998,  the Company  reported an average  natural gas liquids  price of $8.90 per
Bbl.  During the year ended  December 31,  1997,  the Company  reported  average
natural gas liquids  prices of $12.59 per Bbl while  realizing an average  price
for physical sales (excluding  hedging results) of $12.61 per Bbl and recorded a
net decrease to natural gas liquids revenue of $77,600.

       Natural Gas. The Company employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between NYMEX prices and actual index prices.

       The  following  table  sets  forth the  Company's  outstanding  gas hedge
contracts  as of  December  31,  1999.  Prices  included  herein  represent  the
Company's  weighted  average index price per MMBtu.  During the first quarter of
2000, the Company  terminated  Collar  Contracts (and  associated sold puts) for
notional  volumes of 45,000 MMBtu per day for the nine months ended December 31,
2000,  and 60,000  MMBtu per day for the year 2001,  at a cost of $4.6  million.
Including  this cost,  the Company has deferred gas hedge losses of $4.1 million
and $2.5 million that will be recognized during 2000 and 2001, respectively.  In
addition to the hedge contracts  shown below,  certain  counterparties  have the
contractual  right to sell  year  2001,  2002,  and 2003 swap  contracts  to the
Company for notional contract volumes of 49,223; 12,500; and 10,000 Mcf per day,
respectively,  at weighted average strike prices of $2.21;  $2.52; and $2.58 per
MMBtu, respectively.
<TABLE>
                                                                                                        Yearly
                                                 First        Second        Third         Fourth      Outstanding
                                                Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Average
                                              -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Daily gas production:
   2000 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)..........................         1,318           -             -            -              328
     Index price per MMBtu.................   $      3.00   $       -     $       -     $      -      $      3.00

   2000 - Collar Contracts*
     Volume (Mcf)..........................        68,059       103,223       103,223       100,571        93,814
     Index price per MMBtu.................   $2.07-$2.61   $2.07-$2.61   $2.07-$2.61   $2.07-$2.63   $2.07-$2.62

   2001 - Collar Contracts**
     Volume (Mcf)..........................        60,000        60,000        60,000        60,000        60,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................   $2.25-$2.74   $2.24-$2.58   $2.24-$2.58   $2.25-$2.68   $2.25-$2.64

   2002 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)..........................        10,000        10,000        10,000        10,000        10,000
     Index price per MMBtu.................   $      2.42   $      2.42   $      2.42   $      2.42   $      2.42
</TABLE>

                                       62


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

- -------------

*     Concurrent with the Company's  purchase of the year 2000 collar contracts,
      the Company  sold year 2000 put  contracts  to the  counterparties  for an
      equal  volume  at a  weighted  average  index  price of $1.78  per  MMBtu.
      Consequently,  if the  weighted  average year 2000 index price falls below
      $1.78 per MMBtu, the Company will receive the weighted average index price
      for the notional  contract  volumes,  plus  approximately  $.29 per MMBtu.
      54,482 MMBtu per day of the year 2000 collar  contracts and associated put
      contracts are extendable for one year at the option of the  counterparties
      at  weighted  average  per MMBtu  prices  of  $2.09-$2.71  for the  collar
      contracts and $1.80 for the put contracts.

**    Concurrent with the Company's  purchase of the year 2001 collar contracts,
      the Company  sold year 2001 put  contracts  to the  counterparties  for an
      equal  volume  at a  weighted  average  index  price of $1.95  per  MMBtu.
      Consequently,  if the  weighted  average year 2001 index price falls below
      $1.95 per MMBtu, the Company will receive the weighted average index price
      for the notional contract volumes,  plus approximately $.30 per MMBtu. The
      year 2001 collar contracts and associated put contracts are extendable for
      one year at the option of the counterparties for notional contract volumes
      of  60,000  MMBtu  per  day  at  weighted  average  per  MMBtu  prices  of
      $2.25-$2.64 for the collar contracts and $1.95 for the put contracts.

       The Company  reports  average gas prices per Mcf including the effects of
Btu content,  gathering and  transportation  costs, gas processing and shrinkage
and the net  effect  of the gas  hedges.  The  following  table  sets  forth the
Company's gas prices, both realized (excluding hedge results) and reported,  and
the net effects of settlements of gas price hedges to revenue:

                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                       ------------------------
                                                        1999     1998     1997
                                                       ------   ------   ------

   Average price reported per Mcf...................   $ 1.90   $ 1.82   $ 2.20
   Average price realized per Mcf...................   $ 1.84   $ 1.80   $ 2.41
   Addition/(reduction) to revenue (in millions)....   $  9.4   $  3.6   $(21.9)

Mark-to-Market Derivatives

       As of December  31,  1999 and 1998,  the  Company  has  recognized  other
current  liabilities in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets of $15.9
million and $3.4 million, respectively, associated with non-hedge mark-to-market
derivatives.  The  following  descriptions  provide  information  pertaining  to
non-hedge  mark-to-market  derivatives  that  the  Company  was a party to as of
December  31,  1999 and  1998.  See Note C.  "Disclosures  About  Fair  Value of
Financial Instruments" for information regarding the Company's  determination of
the fair values of derivative financial instruments.

       Interest  rate cap. At  December  31,  1998,  the Company was party to an
interest rate cap agreement with a counterparty which capped the Canadian dollar
banker's  acceptance  rate at 8.00  percent on a notional  amount of $80 million
Canadian dollars. The agreement expired in August 1999. Under the agreement, the
Company paid the  counterparty a fixed amount in Canadian dollars on a quarterly
basis.

       Foreign currency agreements.  The Company has a series of forward foreign
exchange swap agreements to exchange  Canadian dollars for United States dollars
at future  dates for a fixed  amount of the first  currency.  As of December 31,
1999 and 1998, the United States dollar  equivalent of foreign currency exchange
swap agreements approximated $72 million and $144 million,  respectively.  These
contracts originated with the Company's acquisition of Chauvco in December 1997.
As these  contracts  do not  qualify as hedges,  the Company  recorded  non-cash
mark-to- market adjustments to decrease the associated  contract  liabilities by
$5.9 million  during 1999 and to increase the  associated  liabilities  by $14.7
million during 1998. These contracts will continue to be marked-to-market  until
they mature at various dates in the fourth quarter of 2000. The related  effects
on the Company's results of operations in future periods could be significant.

                                       63


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       BTU swap  agreements.  During 1996, Mesa entered into BTU swap agreements
covering  13,036 MMBtu per day from  January 1, 1997 through  December 31, 2004.
Under the terms of these agreements,  the Company received a premium of $.52 per
MMBtu over market  natural gas prices from January 1, 1997 through  December 31,
1998.  Additionally,  the Company receives 10 percent of the NYMEX oil price for
the volumes  covered for a six-year  period  ending  December 31, 2004. As these
derivative  contracts do not qualify as hedges,  the Company  recorded  non-cash
mark-to-market  adjustments  to  reduce  the  carrying  value  of the  BTU  swap
liability by $.2 million during 1999 and,  during 1998 and 1997, to increase the
BTU swap  liability  by $5.8  million  and  $5.2  million,  respectively.  These
contracts  will  continue to be  marked-to-market  at the end of each  reporting
period  during their  respective  lives.  The related  effects on the  Company's
results of operations in future periods could be significant.

       Other non-hedge commodity derivatives. During 1999, the Company sold call
options that provide the counterparties an option to exercise call provisions on
10,000  barrels  per day of oil, at a strike  price of $20.00 per barrel,  for a
twenty-one  month  period that began on April 1, 1999 and ends on  December  31,
2000, or to exercise call provisions over that same time period on 100,000 MMBtu
per day of natural gas, at a weighted  average  strike price of $2.75 per MMBtu.
These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Other expenses in
the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for
the  year  ended   December  31,  1999   includes   $21.2  million  of  non-cash
mark-to-market charges associated with these call options.

NOTE I.    Sales to Major Customers

       The  Company's  share  of oil and  gas  production  is  sold  to  various
purchasers.  The  Company is of the opinion  that the loss of any one  purchaser
would not have an adverse  effect on the  ability of the Company to sell its oil
and gas production.

       The following customers  individually accounted for 10 percent or more of
the consolidated oil, NGL and gas revenues of the Company during the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 or 1997:

                                                   Percentage of Consolidated
     Customer                                       Oil, NGL and Gas Revenues
     --------                                      ---------------------------
                                                    1999       1998       1997
                                                   ------     ------     -----
     Williams Energy Services...................      11         10         -
     Genesis Crude Oil, L.P.....................       2         10         23
     Mobil Oil Corporation......................       7          7         16
     Western Gas Resources......................       1          5         10
     Producers Energy Marketing, LLC (a)........      -           3         11
- -------------

(a)  Producers Energy  Marketing,  LLC  ("ProEnergy") is a natural gas marketing
     company in which the  Company  owned a  noncontrolling  member  interest of
     approximately  10 percent  during  1997.  Effective  January  1, 1998,  the
     Company withdrew as a member of ProEnergy.

       At  December  31,  1999,  the amounts  receivable  from  Williams  Energy
Services,  Genesis  Crude Oil,  L.P.,  Mobil Oil  Corporation  and  Western  Gas
Resources  were $15.4  million,  $.1  million,  $6.0  million  and $.1  million,
respectively, which are included in the caption "Accounts receivable - trade" in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

NOTE J.    Other Revenue

       During December 1998, the Company  announced the sale to a third party of
an exclusive and irrevocable  option to purchase  certain oil and gas properties
and other  assets of  the Company.  In consideration  for the  option, the third

                                       64


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

party paid a fee of $41.3 million to the Company, consisting of $29.3 million of
cash and the third party's  common stock that was then valued at $12.0  million.
The third  party's  option lapsed by its terms during the first quarter of 1999.
During the second quarter of 1999, the Company  entered into a purchase and sale
agreement  with the third party that was not completed as specified by the terms
of the  agreement  and, as a result  thereof,  the Company  received  liquidated
damages of  additional  shares of the third  party's  common stock valued at $.5
million.  During 1999,  the Company  recognized  other revenue of $41. 8 million
associated with the transactions described above.

       During 1999, the Company  received an excise tax refund of $30.2 million.
Due to uncertainties  surrounding the collectability of this refund, the Company
did not recognize it as an asset until it was realized. Accordingly, the Company
recognized the tax refund as other revenue during 1999.

NOTE K.     Asset Divestitures

       During 1999, the Company  completed the divestiture of certain assets for
net  divestment  proceeds of $420.5  million (of which $390.5  million were cash
proceeds) and recorded an associated  net loss on disposition of assets of $24.2
million.  The net cash  proceeds from the 1999 asset  divestitures  were used to
reduce outstanding indebtedness.

       Prize  divestiture.  On June 29,  1999,  the Company  completed a sale of
certain  United  States oil and gas producing  properties,  gas plants and other
assets  to  Prize.  The oil and  gas  producing  assets  sold to  Prize  include
properties  located in the Gulf Coast,  Mid Continent and Permian Basin areas of
the Company's United States region.

       In  accordance  with the terms of the  purchase and sale  agreement  (the
"Prize Divestiture"), the Company received net sales proceeds of $245.0 million,
comprised  of  $215.0  million  of cash  and  2,307.693  shares  of six  percent
convertible  preferred  stock having a liquidation  preference and fair value of
$30.0 million.  The convertible  preferred stock provides for six percent annual
dividend  payments,  payable  quarterly  in  additional  equity  shares of Prize
through 2001.  Subsequent to 2001,  Prize has the option of paying the quarterly
dividends on the  convertible  preferred  stock in equity  shares or cash.  Each
share of the convertible  preferred stock may, at the option of the Company,  be
converted into one share of Prize common stock, subject to certain anti-dilution
adjustments.  The  Company  recognized  a loss of $46.4  million  from the Prize
Divestiture during 1999.

       Other United States  divestitures.  In addition to the Prize Divestiture,
the Company  completed the divestitures of  non-strategic  United States oil and
gas properties  located in the South Texas Gulf Coast,  West Texas Permian Basin
and North Dakota areas,  an East Texas gas facility and certain other assets for
net  cash  proceeds  of  $116.2  million  during  1999.  Associated  with  these
divestitures,  the Company recorded net gains on divestitures of assets of $31.0
million during 1999.

       Canadian   divestitures.   During  1999,   the  Company   completed   the
divestitures  of certain  non-strategic  Canadian  oil and gas  properties,  gas
plants and other related  assets.  In accordance  with the terms of the Canadian
divestitures,  the Company  received  net cash  proceeds of $59.3  million,  and
recognized a net loss of $8.8 million.

NOTE L.     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

       Based upon the decline in oil prices that began in the fourth  quarter of
1997 and continued  through the first quarter of 1999, the Company's outlook for
future  commodity  prices and the  Company's  assessment of  performance  issues
relative to certain of its oil and gas  properties,  the Company  estimated  the
expected future cash flows of its oil and gas properties as of December 31, 1998
and 1997,  and  compared  such  estimated  future  cash flows to the  respective
carrying  amounts of the oil and gas  properties  to  determine  if the carrying
amounts were likely to be  recoverable.  For those proved oil and gas properties
for which the carrying  amount  exceeded  the  estimated  future cash flows,  an
impairment was determined to exist; therefore, the Company adjusted the carrying

                                       65


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

amount of those proved oil and gas  properties to their fair value as determined
by discounting  their expected future cash flows at a discount rate commensurate
with the risks  involved in the industry.  As a result,  the Company  recognized
non-cash impairment provisions of $312.2 million and $1.4 billion related to its
proved oil and gas properties during 1998 and 1997, respectively.

       Based  on the  Company's  1999  and  1998  assessments  of  its  unproved
properties,  the  Company  recognized  non- cash  unproved  property  impairment
provisions of $17.9 million and $147.3  million,  respectively,  during 1999 and
1998.

       See Note O for  disclosure  of these  impairment  charges  by  geographic
operating segment.

NOTE M.     Reorganization

       During   1998,   the  Company   announced   its  plans  to  sell  certain
non-strategic oil and gas fields, its intentions to reorganize its operations by
combining  its  six  domestic  operating  regions,   and  other  cost  reduction
initiatives  intended to allow the Company to realize  greater  operational  and
administrative  efficiences.  Specific cost reduction  initiatives  included the
relocation of most of the Company's  administrative services from Midland, Texas
to Irving,  Texas;  the closings of the Company's  regional  offices in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, Corpus Christi, Texas and Houston, Texas; the termination of 350
employees,  including several officer positions;  and, further centralization of
the  Company's  organization  structure.  The  consolidation  of  administrative
services  to Irving and the  closing of the Corpus  Christi,  Texas  office were
completed in 1998. The Company completed the closings of the Houston,  Texas and
Oklahoma  City,  Oklahoma  offices during 1999 and further  centralized  certain
operational functions in Irving, Texas. The unpaid employee termination costs as
of December  31, 1998 related to employees  who were  notified of their  pending
termination prior to December 31, 1998, but were still employed with the Company
as of December 31, 1998.  The unpaid office  closing  amounts as of December 31,
1999 and 1998,  primarily relate to lease commitments on the office buildings in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma,  Corpus Christi, Texas, and Houston, Texas. As a result
of the  reorganization  initiatives,  the Company has recognized  reorganization
charges of $8.5 million and $33.2 million during 1999 and 1998, respectively.

       The  following  table  provides a  description  of the  components of the
reorganization  charges and unpaid  portions  of the charges as of December  31,
1999 and 1998:

                                                                     Unpaid
                                             Total                Portion as of
                                            Charges    Payments    December 31,
                                            --------   --------   -------------
                                                      (in thousands)
      1999:
        Employee terminations...........    $  3,125   $  7,805      $    -
        Relocation......................       4,998      4,768           230
        Office closings.................         340      2,233         1,637
        Other...........................          71         71           -
                                             -------    -------       -------
                                            $  8,534   $ 14,877      $  1,867
                                             =======    =======       =======
      1998:
        Employee terminations...........    $ 22,525   $ 17,845      $  4,680
        Relocation......................       6,677      6,677           -
        Office closings.................       3,873        343         3,530
        Other...........................         124        124           -
                                             -------    -------       -------
                                            $ 33,199   $ 24,989      $  8,210
                                             =======    =======       =======

NOTE N.     Income Taxes

       The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance  with the provisions
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes"  ("SFAS  109").  The  Company  and  its  eligible   subsidiaries  file  a
consolidated United States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries are
not eligible to be included in the

                                       66


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

consolidated United States federal income tax return and separate provisions for
income taxes have been determined for these entities or groups of entities.  The
tax returns and the amount of taxable  income or loss are subject to examination
by United States  federal,  state and foreign  taxing  authorities.  Current and
estimated tax payments of $800,000; $300,000 and $2.7 million were made in 1999,
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  In  addition,  the  Company  received  income tax
refunds of $1.4 million and $3.3 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.  During
1999,  1998 and 1997, the Company's  income tax provision  (benefit) and amounts
separately allocated were as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                    -------------------------------
                                                      1999       1998       1997
                                                    --------   --------   ---------
                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item.........  $   (600)  $ 15,600   $(500,300)
  Extraordinary loss..............................       -          -        (7,200)
  Stockholders' equity provision (benefit)........       -        4,300      (2,900)
  Change in cumulative translation adjustment.....     1,600     (6,000)        -
                                                     -------    -------     -----
                                                    $  1,000   $ 13,900   $(510,400)
                                                     =======    =======    ========
</TABLE>

       Income tax  provision  (benefit)  attributable  to income  (loss)  before
extraordinary item consists of the following:

                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                    ---------------------------------
                                       1999        1998        1997
                                    ---------   ---------   ---------
                                              (in thousands)
     Current:
       U.S. federal...............  $     -     $  (3,300)  $     900
       State and local............        400         300         100
       Foreign....................     (1,000)        -           -
                                     --------    --------    --------
                                         (600)     (3,000)      1,000
                                     --------    --------    --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal...............     14,700     123,500    (470,000)
       State and local............        -          (300)    (28,500)
       Foreign....................    (14,700)   (104,600)     (2,800)
                                     --------    --------    --------
                                          -        18,600    (501,300)
                                     --------    --------    --------
     Total........................  $    (600)  $  15,600   $(500,300)
                                     ========    ========    ========

       Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary  item consists of the
following:
                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                            -----------------------------------
                                               1999       1998         1997
                                            ---------   ---------   -----------
                                                      (in thousands)
   Income (loss) before income taxes
    and extraordinary item:
     U.S. federal........................   $ (23,594)  $(393,602)  $(1,369,582)
     Foreign.............................         534    (337,224)       (7,981)
                                             --------    --------     ---------
                                            $ (23,060)  $(730,826)  $(1,377,563)
                                             ========    ========    ==========

       Reconciliations  of the  United  States  federal  statutory  rate  to the
Company's  effective  rate for income  (loss) before  extraordinary  item are as
follows:

                                                     1999      1998      1997
                                                   -------   -------   -------

   U.S. federal statutory tax rate..............     (35.0)   (35.0)     (35.0)
   Valuation allowance..........................     102.0     37.1         -
   Rate differential on foreign operations......     (68.1)     (.5)        -
   Other........................................      (1.3)      .5       (1.3)
                                                   -------   ------    -------
   Consolidated effective tax rate..............      (2.4)     2.1      (36.3)
                                                   =======   ======    =======

                                       67


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       The tax effects of temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
portions  of the  deferred  tax  assets and  deferred  tax  liabilities  were as
follows:
                                                             December 31,
                                                        ---------------------
                                                           1999        1998
                                                        ---------   ---------
                                                            (in thousands)
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards...................   $ 334,173   $ 291,678
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.......       1,565       1,565
  Other..............................................      78,994      73,260
                                                         --------    --------
    Total deferred tax assets........................     414,732     366,503
  Valuation allowance................................    (319,900)   (271,100)
                                                         --------    --------
    Net deferred tax assets..........................      94,832      95,403
                                                         --------    --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to
    differences in basis and depletion and the
    deduction of intangible drilling costs for
    tax purposes.....................................      38,025      44,058
  Other..............................................      11,107      11,645
                                                         --------    --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities...................      49,132      55,703
                                                         --------    --------
    Net deferred tax asset...........................   $  45,700   $  39,700
                                                         ========    ========

       Realization  of deferred tax assets  associated  with net operating  loss
carryforwards   ("NOLs")  and  other  credit  carryforwards  is  dependent  upon
generating  sufficient  taxable  income prior to their  expiration.  The Company
believes  that  there is a risk that  certain  of these  NOLs and  other  credit
carryforwards  may expire unused and,  accordingly,  has established a valuation
allowance of $319.9 million  against them.  Although  realization is not assured
for the  remaining  deferred tax asset,  the Company  believes it is more likely
than  not  that  they  will be  realized  through  future  taxable  earnings  or
alternative tax planning strategies.  However, the net deferred tax assets could
be reduced further if the Company's estimate of taxable income in future periods
is  significantly  reduced or alternative tax planning  strategies are no longer
viable.

       Certain  subsidiaries  that  are  consolidated  for  financial  reporting
purposes are not eligible to be included in the  Company's  consolidated  United
States federal  income tax return and separate  provisions for income taxes have
been determined for these entities or groups of entities.  At December 31, 1999,
the Company had NOLs for United States,  Argentine,  Canadian, and South African
income tax purposes of $831.4  million,  $24.1 million,  $69.6 million and $10.5
million,  respectively,  which are  available to offset future  regular  taxable
income in each respective tax jurisdiction,  if any.  Additionally,  at December
31,  1999,  the  Company  has   alternative   minimum  tax  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  ("AMT NOLs") in the United  States of $748.1  million,  which are
available to reduce future  alternative  minimum taxable  income,  if any. These
carryforwards expire as follows:

                                       68


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

<TABLE>
                                             U.S.
                                    ---------------------   Argentina    Canada     South Africa
    Expiration Date                    NOL       AMT NOL       NOL         NOL          NOL
    ---------------                 ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ------------
                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                 <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
    December 31, 2001..........     $     689   $     593   $    -       $    -      $       -
    December 31, 2002..........         6,066       6,034      4,416          -              -
    December 31, 2003..........           838         -       19,703          -              -
    December 31, 2005..........        11,049      10,762        -         61,776            -
    December 31, 2006..........        30,834      12,254        -          7,779            -
    December 31, 2007..........       104,107     101,151        -            -              -
    December 31, 2008..........       112,508     106,558        -            -              -
    December 31, 2009..........       129,227     102,727        -            -              -
    December 31, 2010..........       124,859     110,961        -            -              -
    December 31, 2011..........         6,521       4,045        -            -              -
    December 31, 2012..........        68,542      58,890        -            -              -
    December 31, 2018..........       127,925     126,780        -            -              -
    December 31, 2019..........       108,282     107,369        -            -              -
    Indefinite.................           -           -          -            -           10,541
                                     --------    --------    -------      -------     ----------
       Total...................     $ 831,447   $ 748,124   $ 24,119     $ 69,555    $    10,541
                                     ========    ========    =======      =======     ==========
</TABLE>

       The NOLs and AMT NOLs from certain of the United States  subsidiaries are
subject  to  various  utilization  limitations.  In total,  approximately  $34.3
million  of the NOLs and $14.8  million  of the AMT NOLs are  limited  in use to
specific United States  subsidiaries.  Section 382 of the Internal  Revenue Code
provides  another  limitation to $466.7  million of the Company's  United States
NOLs and $379.5 million of its AMT NOLS. The Company believes the utilization of
$246.7  million  of the NOLs and $159.5  million of the AMT NOLs  subject to the
Section 382 limitation are limited in each taxable year to approximately  $104.2
million and the  remaining  $220 million of the NOLs and AMT NOLs subject to the
Section 382  limitation  are limited in each taxable year to  approximately  $20
million.

NOTE O.     Geographic Operating Segment Information

       The Company has operations in only one industry  segment,  that being the
oil and gas  exploration  and  production  industry;  however,  the  Company  is
organizationally  structured along geographic  operating  segments,  or regions.
Since the merger with Mesa and the  acquisition of Chauvco,  the Company has had
reportable  operations in the United States,  Argentina and Canada. During 1997,
the Company had only minor operations outside the United States.

       The  following  table  provides  the  geographic  operating  segment data
required by Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related  Information"  ("SFAS 131"), as well
as  results  of  operations  of oil and gas  producing  activities  required  by
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and
Gas Producing  Activities" ("SFAS 69").  Geographic operating segment income tax
benefits  (provisions) have been determined based on statutory rates existing in
the  various  tax  jurisdictions  where the  Company  has oil and gas  producing
activities.  The  "Headquarters  and  other"  table  column  includes  revenues,
expenses, additions to properties,  plants and equipment, and assets that do not
represent revenues, expenses, additions to properties,  plants and equipment, or
assets of oil and gas producing activities,  and that are not routinely included
in the earnings  measures or attributes  internally  reported to management on a
geographic operating segment basis.

                                       69


<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
<TABLE>
                                                 United                                Other     Headquarters   Consolidated
                                                 States      Argentina    Canada      Foreign      and Other        Total
                                               -----------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------
                                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                            <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>            <C>
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
 Oil and gas revenues......................    $   502,585   $  83,697   $  58,364   $     -     $       -      $   644,646
 Interest and other........................            -           -           -           -          89,657         89,657
 Loss on disposition of assets.............        (14,736)        -        (8,836)        -            (596)       (24,168)
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------      ---------
                                                   487,849      83,697      49,528         -          89,061        710,135
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Production costs..........................        124,654      18,268      16,608         -             -          159,530
 Depletion, depreciation and amortization..        153,775      38,874      25,601         -          17,797        236,047
 Impairment of oil and gas properties......         17,894         -           -           -             -           17,894
 Exploration and abandonments..............         41,225      14,009       3,509       7,231           -           65,974
 General and administrative................            -           -           -           -          40,241         40,241
 Reorganization............................            -           -           -           -           8,534          8,534
 Interest..................................            -           -           -           -         170,344        170,344
 Other.....................................            -           -           -           -          34,631         34,631
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
                                                   337,548      71,151      45,718       7,231       271,547        733,195
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Loss before income taxes..................        150,301      12,546       3,810      (7,231)     (182,486)       (23,060)
 Income tax benefit (provision)............        (52,605)     (4,140)     (1,699)      2,531        56,513            600
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Net loss..................................    $    97,696   $   8,406   $   2,111   $  (4,700)  $  (125,973)   $   (22,460)
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
 Additions to properties, plant and
    equipment..............................    $    81,739   $  75,137   $  18,893   $   3,899   $     7,756    $   187,424
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========

 Segment assets (as of December 31)........    $ 1,865,441   $ 734,382   $ 218,526   $   8,289   $   102,835    $ 2,929,473
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
Year Ended December 31, 1998:
 Oil and gas revenues......................    $   579,156   $  65,256   $  67,080   $     -     $       -      $   711,492
 Interest and other........................            -           -           -           -          10,452         10,452
 Loss on disposition of assets............            (52)        -           -           -            (393)          (445)
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
                                                   579,104      65,256      67,080         -          10,059        721,499
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Production costs..........................        177,371      21,158      25,022         -             -          223,551
 Depletion, depreciation and amortization..        239,561      42,115      40,617         -          15,015        337,308
 Impairment of oil and gas properties......        237,528     136,751      85,240         -             -          459,519
 Exploration and abandonments..............         69,263      18,245      20,613      13,737           -          121,858
 General and administrative................            -           -           -           -          73,000         73,000
 Reorganization............................            -           -           -           -          33,199         33,199
 Interest..................................            -           -           -           -         164,285        164,285
 Other.....................................            -           -           -           -          39,605         39,605
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
                                                   723,723     218,269     171,492      13,737       325,104      1,452,325
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Loss before income taxes..................       (144,619)   (153,013)   (104,412)    (13,737)     (315,045)      (730,826)
 Income tax benefit (provision)............         53,075      50,494      45,628       4,808      (169,605)       (15,600)
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Net loss..................................    $   (91,544)  $(102,519)  $ (58,784)  $  (8,929)  $  (484,650)   $  (746,426)
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
 Additions to properties, plant and
    equipment..............................    $   346,368   $  69,082   $  73,096   $  18,791   $    31,546    $   538,883
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
 Segment assets (as of December 31)........    $ 2,259,746   $ 692,271   $ 308,025   $ 103,702   $   117,570    $ 3,481,314
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
Year Ended December 31, 1997:
 Oil and gas revenues......................    $   533,865   $   2,917   $     -     $     -     $       -      $   536,782
 Interest and other........................            -           -           -           -           4,278          4,278
 Gain on disposition of assets.............          3,305         -           -           -           1,664          4,969
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
                                                   537,170       2,917         -           -           5,942        546,029
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Production costs..........................        143,332         838         -           -             -          144,170
 Depletion, depreciation and amortization..        203,160       1,290         -           -           7,985        212,435
 Impairment of oil and gas properties......      1,356,390         -           -           -             -        1,356,390
 Exploration and abandonments..............         69,896       1,822         -         5,442           -           77,160
 General and administrative................            -           -           -           -          48,763         48,763
 Interest..................................            -           -           -           -          77,550         77,550
 Other.....................................            -           -           -           -           7,124          7,124
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
                                                 1,772,778       3,950         -         5,442       141,422      1,923,592
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Loss before income taxes and
    extraordinary item.....................     (1,235,608)     (1,033)        -        (5,442)     (135,480)    (1,377,563)
 Income tax benefit........................        453,468         341         -         1,905        44,586        500,300
                                                ----------    --------    --------    --------    ----------     ----------
 Loss before extraordinary items...........    $  (782,140)  $    (692)  $     -     $  (3,537)  $   (90,894)   $  (877,263)
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
 Additions to properties, plant and
    equipment..............................    $   417,269   $   4,446   $     -     $   6,925   $    12,783    $   441,423
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
 Segment assets (as of December 31)........    $ 2,684,091   $ 734,569   $ 505,483   $   1,085   $   227,762    $ 4,152,990
                                                ==========    ========    ========    ========    ==========     ==========
</TABLE>
                                       70


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

NOTE P.     Loss Per Share

       Basic  net  income  (loss)  per  share is  computed  by  dividing  income
available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding  for the period.  The  computation  of diluted net income (loss) per
share  reflects the  potential  dilution that could occur if securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or
resulted in the  issuance of common  stock that would then share in the earnings
of the entity.  For 1999, 1998 and 1997, the computation of diluted net loss per
share was  antidilutive;  therefore,  the amounts reported for basic and diluted
net loss per share were the same.

NOTE Q.     Pioneer USA

       Pioneer USA is a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company that has fully
and unconditionally  guaranteed certain debt securities of the Company (see Note
D  above).  The  Company  has not  prepared  financial  statements  and  related
disclosures  for Pioneer USA under  separate  cover  because  management  of the
Company has determined  that such  information is not material to investors.  In
accordance with practices  accepted by the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the  "SEC"),  the  Company  has  prepared  Consolidating  Condensed
Financial  Statements  in order to  quantify  the  assets  of  Pioneer  USA as a
subsidiary guarantor. The following Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998,  and  Consolidating  Statements  of  Operations  and
Comprehensive Loss and Consolidating  Condensed Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 present  financial  information for
Pioneer Natural Resources Company as the Parent on a stand-alone basis (carrying
any investments in subsidiaries under the equity method),  financial information
for Pioneer USA on a stand-alone basis (carrying any investment in non-guarantor
subsidiaries  under  the  equity  method),  financial  information  for the non-
guarantor subsidiaries of the Company on a consolidated basis, the consolidation
and elimination  entries  necessary to arrive at the information for the Company
on a  consolidated  basis,  and the financial  information  for the Company on a
consolidated basis.  Pioneer USA is not restricted from making  distributions to
the Company.

                                       71


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
                                     ASSETS

<TABLE>
                                             Pioneer
                                             Natural
                                            Resources                     Non-
                                             Company      Pioneer      Guarantor                        The
                                            (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Eliminations     Company
                                           ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.............   $        5   $    22,699   $    12,084     $             $    34,788
  Other current assets..................    2,160,134    (1,455,442)     (556,344)                      148,348
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
      Total current assets..............    2,160,139    (1,432,743)     (544,260)                      183,136
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties...................          -       2,200,173       797,162                     2,997,335
    Unproved properties.................          -          24,267       233,316                       257,583
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................          -        (614,402)     (137,554)                     (751,956)
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
                                                  -       1,610,038       892,924                     2,502,962
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Deferred income taxes...................       83,400           -             -                          83,400
Other property and equipment, net.......          -          28,144        14,862                        43,006
Other assets, net.......................       13,293        58,117        45,559                       116,969
Investment in subsidiaries..............      190,293       161,061           -        (351,354)             -
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
                                           $2,447,125   $   424,617   $   409,085                   $ 2,929,473
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt..   $      -     $       828   $       -       $             $       828
  Other current liabilities.............       36,115       120,857        39,013                       195,985
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
      Total current liabilities.........       36,115       121,685        39,013                       196,813
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Long-term debt, less current maturities.    1,745,108           -             -                       1,745,108
Other noncurrent liabilities............          -         137,848        31,590                       169,438
Deferred income taxes...................          -             -          43,500                        43,500
Stockholders' equity....................      665,902       165,084       294,982      (351,354)        774,614
Commitments and contingencies...........    ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
                                           $2,447,125   $   424,617   $   409,085                   $ 2,929,473
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    ==========

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 1998
                                 (in thousands)

                                     ASSETS

                                            Pioneer
                                            Natural
                                           Resources                     Non-
                                            Company         Pioneer    Guarantor                       The
                                            (Parent)         USA      Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                           ----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   -----------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.............   $    3,161   $    37,932   $    18,128     $             $    59,221
  Other current assets..................    2,248,244    (1,735,638)     (369,839)                      142,767
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
      Total current assets..............    2,251,405    (1,697,706)     (351,711)                      201,988
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties...................          -       2,678,637       942,993                     3,621,630
    Unproved properties.................          -          58,989       283,600                       342,589
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization........................          -        (753,570)     (176,541)                     (930,111)
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
                                                  -       1,984,056     1,050,052                     3,034,108
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Deferred income taxes...................       96,800           -             -                          96,800
Other property and equipment, net.......          -          38,229        16,781                        55,010
Other assets, net.......................        9,787        43,557        40,064                        93,408
Investment in subsidiaries..............      135,204       148,257           -        (283,461)             -
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
                                           $2,493,196   $   516,393   $   755,186                   $ 3,481,314
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt..   $  212,302   $     1,189   $    93,030     $             $   306,521
  Other current liabilities.............       21,727       145,945        52,639                       220,311
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
      Total current liabilities.........      234,029       147,134       145,669                       526,832
                                            ---------    ----------    ----------                    ----------
Long-term debt, less current maturities.    1,676,933           830       190,981                     1,868,744
Other noncurrent liabilities............          -         189,325        43,136                       232,461
Deferred income taxes...................          -             -          64,200                        64,200
Stockholders' equity....................      582,234       179,104       311,200      (283,461)        789,077
Commitments and contingencies...........   ----------   -----------    ----------                    ----------
                                           $2,493,196   $   516,393   $   755,186                   $ 3,481,314
                                            =========    ==========    ==========                    ==========
</TABLE>
                                       72


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                  Pioneer
                                  Natural
                                 Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                  Company     Pioneer     Guarantor        Income                         The
                                  (Parent)      USA      Subsidiaries   Tax Provision   Eliminations    Company
                                 ---------   ---------   ------------   -------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                              <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas..................  $     -     $ 470,059    $  174,587     $       -       $             $  644,646
  Interest and other...........        406      52,232        37,019             -                         89,657
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net...............        -        19,379       (43,547)            -                        (24,168)
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
                                       406     541,670       168,059             -                        710,135
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.......        -       120,074        39,456             -                        159,530
  Depletion, depreciation and

    amortization...............        -       157,294        78,753             -                        236,047
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties.................        -        17,894           -               -                         17,894
  Exploration and abandonments.        -        43,133        22,841             -                         65,974
  General and administrative...      1,051      27,260        11,930             -                         40,241
  Reorganization...............        -         8,534           -               -                          8,534
  Interest.....................    (33,404)    145,184        58,564             -                        170,344
  Equity income (loss) from
    subsidiary.................     39,672      (5,179)          -               -         (34,493)           -
  Other........................        799      38,166        (4,334)            -                         34,631
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
                                     8,118     552,360       207,210             -                        733,195
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Loss before income taxes.......     (7,712)    (10,690)      (39,151)            -                        (23,060)
Income tax benefit (provision).        -          (444)       15,792         (14,748)                         600
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Net loss.......................     (7,712)    (11,134)      (23,359)        (14,748)                     (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment.......        -           -           8,358             -                          8,358
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Comprehensive loss.............  $  (7,712)  $ (11,134)   $  (15,001)    $   (14,748)                  $  (14,102)
                                  ========    ========     =========      ==========                    =========

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                 (in thousands)

                                  Pioneer
                                  Natural
                                 Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                  Company     Pioneer     Guarantor        Income                         The
                                  (Parent)      USA      Subsidiaries   Tax Provision   Eliminations    Company
                                 ----------  ---------   ------------   -------------   ------------   ----------
Revenues:
  Oil and gas..................  $     -     $ 523,736    $  187,756     $       -       $             $  711,492
  Interest and other...........         38       7,937         2,477             -                         10,452
  Loss on disposition of assets,
   net                                 -          (477)           32             -                           (445)
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
                                        38     531,196       190,265             -                        721,499
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.......        -       164,964        58,587             -                        223,551
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization...............        -       225,127       112,181             -                        337,308
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties.................        -       237,529       221,990             -                        459,519
  Exploration and abandonments.        -        71,851        50,007             -                        121,858
  General and administrative...      2,042      57,158        13,800             -                         73,000
  Reorganization...............        -        31,756         1,443             -                         33,199
  Interest.....................    (54,237)    159,863        58,659             -                        164,285
  Equity loss from subsidiary..    675,142       4,358           -               -        (679,500)           -
  Other........................        722      22,732        16,151             -                         39,605
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
                                   623,669     975,338       532,818             -                      1,452,325
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Loss before income taxes.......   (623,631)   (444,142)     (342,553)            -                       (730,826)
Income tax provision...........        -          (174)      107,369        (122,795)                     (15,600)
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Net loss.......................   (623,631)   (444,316)     (235,184)       (122,795)                    (746,426)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment.......        -           -           2,903             -                          2,903
                                  --------    --------     ---------      ----------                    ---------
Comprehensive loss.............  $(623,631)  $(444,316)   $ (232,281)    $  (122,795)                  $ (743,523)
                                  ========    ========     =========      ===========                   =========
</TABLE>
                                       73


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1997
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                   Pioneer
                                   Natural
                                  Resources                     Non-        Consolidated
                                   Company       Pioneer      Guarantor        Income                        The
                                   (Parent)        USA       Subsidiaries   Tax Benefit    Eliminations    Company
                                 -----------   -----------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                              <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas..................  $       -     $   453,771    $   83,011     $       -     $             $   536,782
  Interest and other...........          -           5,357           873             -          (1,952)        4,278
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
    assets, net................          -           6,062          (402)            -            (691)        4,969
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
                                         -         465,190        83,482             -                       546,029
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.......          -         128,644        15,526             -                       144,170
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization...............          -         166,495        45,940             -                       212,435
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties.................          -       1,220,920       135,470             -                     1,356,390
  Exploration and abandonments.          -          67,679         9,481             -                        77,160
  General and administrative...          613        44,766         3,384             -                        48,763
  Interest.....................        5,910        67,969         5,623             -          (1,952)       77,550
  Equity loss from subsidiary..    1,407,844       124,874           -               -      (1,532,718)          -
  Other........................          -           7,065            59             -                         7,124
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
                                   1,414,367     1,828,412       215,483             -                     1,923,592
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
Loss before income taxes and
  extraordinary item...........   (1,414,367)   (1,363,222)     (132,001)            -                    (1,377,563)
Income tax benefit.............          -             -             -           500,300                     500,300
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
Loss before extraordinary item.   (1,414,367)   (1,363,222)     (132,001)        500,300                    (877,263)
Extraordinary item - loss on
  early extinguishment of debt,
  net of tax...................          -         (13,408)          -               -                       (13,408)
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  ----------
Net loss.......................   (1,414,367)   (1,376,630)     (132,001)        500,300                    (890,671)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment.......          -             -             -               -                           -
                                  ----------    ----------     ---------      ----------                  --------
Comprehensive loss.............  $(1,414,367)  $(1,376,630)   $ (132,001)    $   500,300                 $  (890,671)
                                  ==========    ==========     =========      ==========                  ==========
</TABLE>
                                       74


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
                                                                      Pioneer
                                                                      Natural
                                                                     Resources                   Non-
                                                                      Company     Pioneer     Guarantor        The
                                                                      (Parent)      USA      Subsidiaries    Company
                                                                    ----------   ---------   ------------   ----------
<S>                                                                 <C>          <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities..........     $  152,485   $(230,625)   $ 333,374     $  255,234
                                                                     ---------    --------     --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets..........................            -       328,182       62,349        390,531
  Additions to oil and gas properties..........................            -       (74,257)    (105,412)      (179,669)
  Other property additions, net................................            -        (8,335)      (3,532)       (11,867)
                                                                     ---------    --------     --------      ---------
         Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities...            -       245,590      (46,595)       198,995
                                                                     ---------    --------     --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..............................        355,493         -            -          355,493
  Principal payments on long-term debt.........................       (504,493)     (1,192)    (288,234)      (793,919)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities............................            -       (29,006)      (4,996)       (34,002)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs............................         (6,891)        -            -           (6,891)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases.......            250         -            -              250
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ---------
         Net cash used in financing activities.................       (155,641)    (30,198)     (293,230)     (479,069)
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ---------
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents......................         (3,156)    (15,233)      (6,451)       (24,840)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...            -           -            407            407
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.................          3,161      37,932       18,128         59,221
                                                                     ---------    --------     --------      ---------
    Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................     $        5   $  22,699    $  12,084     $   34,788
                                                                     =========    ========     ========      =========

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                 (in thousands)
                                                                     Pioneer
                                                                     Natural
                                                                    Resources                    Non-
                                                                     Company      Pioneer     Guarantor        The
                                                                     (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Company
                                                                    ----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities..........     $ (151,315)  $ 313,359    $  152,032    $   314,076
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets..........................            -        13,791         8,085         21,876
  Additions to oil and gas properties..........................            -      (309,639)     (197,698)      (507,337)
  Other property additions, net................................            -       (15,862)      (15,684)       (31,546)
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
         Net cash used in investing activities.................            -      (311,710)     (205,297)      (517,007)
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..............................        886,008         -          61,172        947,180
  Principal payments on long-term debt.........................       (704,857)     (1,326)       (5,341)      (711,524)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities............................            -       (11,424)       (5,667)       (17,091)
  Dividends....................................................         (9,160)        -            (916)       (10,076)
  Purchase of treasury stock...................................        (10,367)        -             -          (10,367)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs............................         (7,189)        -             -           (7,189)
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities...        154,435     (12,750)       49,248        190,933
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents...........          3,120     (11,101)       (4,017)       (11,998)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...            -           -            (494)          (494)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.................             41      49,033        22,639         71,713
                                                                     ---------    --------     ---------     ----------
    Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................     $    3,161   $  37,932    $   18,128    $    59,221
                                                                     =========    ========     =========     ==========
</TABLE>

                                       75


<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

Capitalized Costs
- -----------------
                                                                December 31,
                                                        -----------------------
                                                           1999         1998
                                                        ----------   ----------
                                                             (in thousands)
 il and Gas Properties:
  Proved..............................................  $2,997,335   $3,621,630
  Unproved............................................     257,583      342,589
                                                         ---------     --------
                                                         3,254,918    3,964,219
  Less accumulated depletion..........................    (751,956)    (930,111)
                                                         ---------     --------
  Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties....  $2,502,962   $3,034,108
                                                         =========    =========

<TABLE>
Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
- ---------------------------------------------------
                                           Property
                                      Acquisition Costs                                     Total
                                    ---------------------     Exploration   Development     Costs
                                      Proved     Unproved(a)     Costs         Costs       Incurred
                                    ----------   --------     -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                             (in thousands)

<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
  United States..................   $      937   $   3,185    $    42,337   $    59,204   $   105,663
  Argentina......................       36,312       2,517         12,597        25,228        76,654
  Canada.........................          174      (7,375)         1,431        17,322        11,552
  Other foreign (b)..............          151         -            7,106           -           7,257
                                     ---------    --------     ----------    ----------    ----------
    Total costs incurred.........   $   37,574   $  (1,673)   $    63,471   $   101,754   $   201,126
                                     =========    ========     ==========    ==========    ==========
Year Ended December 31, 1998:
  United States..................   $   19,658   $  34,092    $    62,747   $   213,943   $   330,440
  Argentina......................        4,504      67,010         22,521        39,049       133,084
  Canada.........................        1,185     (93,349)        21,871        47,550       (22,743)
  Other foreign (c)..............         (136)        -           21,706           412        21,982
                                     ---------    --------     ----------    ----------    ----------
    Total costs incurred.........   $   25,211   $   7,753    $   128,845   $   300,954   $   462,763
                                     =========    ========     ==========    ==========    ==========
Year Ended December 31, 1997:
  United States..................   $2,623,993   $  91,373    $    88,710   $   243,119   $ 3,047,195
  Argentina......................      430,607     252,343          1,822         3,927       688,699
  Canada.........................                  287,787        194,067           -             -                   481,854
  Other foreign (d)..............          -           332          5,442           -           5,774
                                     ---------    --------     ----------    ----------    ----------
    Total costs incurred.........   $3,342,387   $ 538,115    $    95,974   $   247,046   $ 4,223,522
                                     =========    ========     ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
- ---------------

(a)  Includes 1998 Chauvco purchase price adjustments of $59.9 million for
     Argentina and $(99.4) million for Canada.
(b)  Primarily comprised of South Africa and Gabon geological and geophysical
     costs.
(c)  Primarily relates to the drilling of five wells in South Africa.
(d)  Primarily relates to an unsuccessful well in Guatemala.

                                       76


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

Results of Operations

       Information  about the Company's  results of  operations  for oil and gas
producing  activities  is  presented  in  Note O to the  accompanying  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

       The  estimates of the Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves,  which are
located  principally in the United States,  Argentina and Canada are prepared by
the Company's  engineers.  Reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines
established  by the SEC and the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board,  which
require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic and operating
conditions  with  no  provision  for  price  and  cost  escalations   except  by
contractual arrangements.  The reserve estimates for 1999, 1998 and 1997 utilize
respective  oil  prices  of  $24.33,  $10.09  and  $16.89  per  Bbl  (reflecting
adjustments for oil quality and gathering and transportation costs);  respective
NGL prices of $17.59,  $6.81 and $12.79 per Bbl; and,  respective  gas prices of
$1.83,  $1.64  and  $2.06  per Mcf  (reflecting  adjustments  for  Btu  content,
gathering and transportation costs and gas processing and shrinkage).

       Oil  and  gas  reserve   quantity   estimates  are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.

                                       77


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
<TABLE>
Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
                                                1999                              1998                             1997
                                   -------------------------------   -----------------------------   ------------------------------
                                     Oil                               Oil                             Oil
                                    & NGLs       Gas                  & NGLs      Gas                 & NGLs      Gas
                                    (MBbls)     (MMcf)       MBOE     (MBbls)    (MMcf)      MBOE     (MBbls)    (MMcf)      MBOE
Total Proved Reserves:             --------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
<S>                                <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............   269,638   1,545,644    527,246   329,316   1,719,130   615,838   162,836     828,268    300,881
Revisions of previous estimates..    51,649     196,833     84,455   (34,211)    (32,113)  (39,563)   70,063    (100,755)    53,271
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -          -         -           -         -     121,286   1,147,921    312,606
New discoveries and extensions...       149       1,351        374       183       3,438       756     1,109       7,659      2,385
Production.......................   (20,163)   (106,095)   (37,845)  (25,327)   (137,741)  (48,284)  (17,737)   (104,868)   (35,215)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......   (42,207)   (322,891)   (96,024)     (323)     (7,070)   (1,501)   (8,241)    (59,095)   (18,090)
                                   --------  ----------   --------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------    -------
Balance, December 31.............   259,066   1,314,842    478,206   269,638   1,545,644   527,246   329,316   1,719,130    615,838

ARGENTINA

Balance, January 1...............    24,219     428,334     95,608    31,612     340,392    88,344     1,105       1,108      1,290
Revisions of previous estimates..    (2,441)    (12,470)    (4,520)   (7,615)     76,843     5,192      (259)     (1,108)      (444)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     4,406      17,483      7,320       -           -         -      30,914     340,392     87,646
New discoveries and extensions...     6,182      16,750      8,974     3,522      37,900     9,839       -           -          -
Production.......................    (2,569)    (34,477)    (8,315)   (3,300)    (26,801)   (7,767)     (148)        -         (148)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......       -           -          -         -           -         -         -           -          -
                                   --------  ----------   --------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------    -------
Balance, December 31.............    29,797     415,620     99,067    24,219     428,334    95,608    31,612     340,392     88,344

CANADA

Balance, January 1...............    12,447     249,230     53,985    22,796     207,868    57,441       -           -          -
Revisions of previous estimates..     4,865     (62,356)    (5,527)   (6,905)     60,247     3,135       -           -          -
Purchases of minerals-in-place...       -           -          -           2         -           2    22,796     207,868     57,441
New discoveries and extensions...       -           -          -         261       5,951     1,253       -           -          -
Production.......................    (1,960)    (17,886)    (4,941)   (3,596)    (19,371)   (6,824)      -           -          -
Sales of minerals-in-place.......   (11,382)    (23,737)   (15,338)     (111)     (5,465)   (1,022)      -           -          -
                                   --------  ----------   --------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------    -------
Balance, December 31.............     3,970     145,251     28,179    12,447     249,230    53,985    22,796     207,868     57,441

TOTAL

Balance, January 1...............   306,304   2,223,208    676,839   383,724   2,267,390   761,623   163,941     829,376    302,171
Revisions of previous estimates..    54,073     122,007     74,408   (48,731)    104,977   (31,236)   69,804    (101,863)    52,827
Purchases of minerals-in-place...     4,406      17,483      7,320         2         -           2   174,996   1,696,181    457,693
New discoveries and extensions...     6,331      18,101      9,348     3,966      47,289    11,848     1,109       7,659      2,385
Production.......................   (24,692)   (158,458)   (51,101)  (32,223)   (183,913)  (62,875)  (17,885)   (104,868)   (35,363)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......   (53,589)   (346,628)  (111,362)    (434)     (12,535)   (2,523)   (8,241)    (59,095)   (18,090)
                                   --------  ----------   --------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------
Balance, December 31.............   292,833   1,875,713    605,452   306,304   2,223,208   676,839   383,724   2,267,390    761,623
                                   ========  ==========   ========   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========

Proved Developed Reserves:
  January 1......................   274,953   2,001,775    608,582   329,920   1,956,658   656,030   126,370     660,174    236,399
                                   ========  ==========   ========   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========
  December 31....................   235,165   1,538,310    491,551   274,953   2,001,775   608,582   329,920   1,956,658    656,030
                                   ========  ==========   ========   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========
</TABLE>

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

       The standardized  measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed
by applying year-end prices of oil and gas (with  consideration of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  discounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil  and  gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the difference.

                                       78


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

       Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like those  shown below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.
<TABLE>
                                                             For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------------------
                                                             1999          1998          1997
                                                         -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
UNITED STATES Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows.................................  $ 8,143,587   $ 5,050,473   $ 8,936,044
   Future production costs.............................   (2,823,316)   (2,281,406)   (3,185,357)
   Future development costs............................     (288,801)     (227,727)     (325,659)
   Future income tax expense...........................     (855,875)          -        (860,632)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                           4,175,595     2,541,340     4,564,396
10% annual discount factor.............................   (1,837,826)   (1,314,471)   (2,067,371)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows...  $ 2,337,769   $ 1,226,869   $ 2,497,025
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows.................................  $ 1,075,904   $   686,911   $   912,688
   Future production costs.............................     (199,513)     (196,446)     (168,105)
   Future development costs............................      (79,336)      (45,710)     (137,060)
   Future income tax expense...........................      (87,274)          -         (60,069)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                             709,781       444,755       547,454
10% annual discount factor.............................     (240,681)     (211,956)     (201,732)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows...  $   469,100   $   232,799   $   345,722
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows.................................  $   354,662   $   526,844   $   662,104
   Future production costs.............................      (91,913)     (163,414)     (223,325)
   Future development costs............................      (54,571)      (49,380)      (48,323)
   Future income tax expense...........................       (2,522)      (30,797)      (79,044)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                             205,656       283,253       311,412
10% annual discount factor.............................      (75,266)      (94,113)     (102,395)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows...  $   130,390   $   189,140   $   209,017
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows.................................  $ 9,574,153   $ 6,264,228   $10,510,836
   Future production costs.............................   (3,114,742)   (2,641,266)   (3,576,787)
   Future development costs............................     (422,708)     (322,817)     (511,042)
   Future income tax expense...........................     (945,671)      (30,797)     (999,745)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                           5,091,032     3,269,348     5,423,262
10% annual discount factor.............................   (2,153,773)   (1,620,540)   (2,371,498)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows...  $ 2,937,259   $ 1,648,808   $ 3,051,764
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
                                       79


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
<TABLE>
                                                              For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Producing Activities                             1999         1998           1997
                                                          ----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>           <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs...........  $ (485,116)  $  (487,942)  $  (392,612)
   Net changes in prices and production costs...........   1,571,584    (1,281,944)   (1,034,678)
   Extensions and discoveries...........................      60,695        44,018        19,993
   Sales of minerals-in-place...........................    (468,376)      (12,748)     (126,879)
   Purchases of minerals-in-place.......................      56,309             3     1,880,570
   Revisions of estimated future development costs......    (115,043)       (2,777)      (15,158)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates.............     387,616       (68,086)      240,375
   Accretion of discount................................     164,881       307,567       234,537
   Changes in production rates, timing and other........     115,901        75,045       (99,753)
                                                           ---------    ----------    ----------
   Change in present value of future net revenues.......   1,288,451    (1,426,864)      706,395
   Net change in present value of future income taxes...         -          23,908       537,804
                                                           ---------    ----------    ----------
                                                           1,288,451    (1,402,956)    1,244,199
   Balance, beginning of year...........................   1,648,808     3,051,764     1,807,565
                                                           ---------    ----------    ----------
   Balance, end of year.................................  $2,937,259   $ 1,648,808   $ 3,051,764
                                                           =========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
Selected Quarterly Financial Results

                                                      Quarter
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                      First      Second     Third      Fourth
                                     --------   --------   --------   ---------
                                       (in thousands, except per share data)
1999
    Operating revenues.............  $147,151   $174,231   $159,855   $ 163,409
    Total revenues.................  $193,191   $134,744   $213,165   $ 169,035
    Costs and expenses.............  $195,292   $209,860   $166,137   $ 161,906
    Net income (loss)..............  $ (2,501)  $(74,616)  $ 46,428   $   8,229
    Net income (loss) per share....  $   (.02)  $   (.74)  $    .46   $     .08
1998
    Operating revenues.............  $197,369   $183,647   $173,462   $ 157,014
    Total revenues.................  $198,557   $185,107   $178,869   $ 158,966
    Costs and expenses.............  $238,801   $235,616   $247,071   $ 730,837
    Net loss ......................  $(26,844)  $(32,809)  $(43,902)  $(642,871)
    Net loss per share.............  $   (.27)  $   (.33)  $   (.44)  $   (6.41)


                                       80


<PAGE>



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 18, 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 18, 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
              MANAGEMENT

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 18, 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 18, 2000 and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

       The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  Company are
included in "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Reports
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
       Consolidated  Statements of  Operations  and  Comprehensive  Loss for the
         years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
       Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  for the years  ended
         December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
       Consolidated  Statements of  Cash Flows for the  years ended December 31,
         1999, 1998 and 1997
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

       All other  statements  and schedules  for which  provision is made in the
applicable accounting  regulations of the SEC have been omitted because they are
not required under related instructions or are inapplicable,  or the information
is shown in the financial statements and related notes.

                                       81


<PAGE>



  Exhibits
  --------
Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

2.1  - Amended and Restated  Agreement and Plan of Merger,  dated as of April 6,
       1997, by and among MESA Inc. ("Mesa"),  Mesa Operating Co.  ("MOC"),  MXP
       Reincorporation  Corp. and Parker & Parsley Petroleum  Company ("Parker &
       Parsley")  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  2.1 to the  Company's
       Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No.
       333-26951).

3.1  - Amended  and  Restated   Certificate  of  Incorporation  of  the  Company
       (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's  Registration
       Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333- 26951).

3.2  - Restated Bylaws of the Company  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
       to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997,
       Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3  - Certificate  of   Designations   of   Special   Preferred   Voting  Stock
       (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 3.3 of the Company's  Registration
       Statement on Form S-3,  Registration No. 333-42315, filed with the SEC on
       December 17, 1997).

3.4  - Terms and Conditions of Exchangeable Shares (incorporated by reference to
       Annex F to the Definitive Joint Management Information Circular and Proxy
       Statement of the Company and Chauvco Resources Ltd. ("Chauvco"), File No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on November 17, 1997).

4.1  - Form of  Certificate  of Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share,  of the
       Company  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  4.1  to  the  Company's
       Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated June 27, 1997, Registration No.
       333-26951).

4.2  - Form of Certificate of Special  Preferred  Voting Stock  (incorporated by
       reference  to  Exhibit 4.1  to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,
       File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3  - Form of Certificate of Exchangeable Shares  (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit  4.2 to the  Company's Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

9.1  - Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18, 1997, among
       the Company,  Pioneer Natural  Resources (Canada) Ltd. ("Pioneer Canada")
       and  Montreal  Trust  Company  of  Canada,  as  Trustee  (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit  2.4 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,
       File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

9.2  - Amended and  Restated  Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3,
       1997,  by and  between the Company and Guy J. Turcotte  (incorporated  by
       reference to Exhibit 2.6 to the Company's Registration  Statement on Form
       S-3,  Registration No.  333-42315,  filed  with  the  SEC on December 15,
       1997).

9.3  - Shareholders  Agreement,  dated as of September 3, 1997, by and among the
       Company, Trimac Corporation and Gendis Inc. (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit  2.4  to the  Company's  Current Report on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on October 2, 1997).

10.1 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
       Issuer, the Company, as Guarantor,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as
       Trustee, relating to the 11-5/8% Senior  Subordinated  Discount Notes Due
       2006  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.17 to Mesa's Quarterly
       Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

                                       82


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.2 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
       USA (formerly MOC), as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary  guarantors  named
       therein, the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee, with
       respect to  the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
       10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3 - Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
       USA (formerly  MOC), as Issuer,  Mesa,  the subsidiary  guarantors  named
       therein, the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee, with
       respect to the indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
       10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.4 - Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
       Pioneer USA, the Subsidiary  Guarantors named therein,  the Company,  and
       Harris Trust and Savings Bank,  as Trustee, with respect to the indenture
       identified  above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
       10.12 to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
       filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5 - Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer  USA  (formerly MOC),  a  Delaware  corporation,  the  Company, a
       Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and
       Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee, with
       respect to the indenture identified  above as Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit  10.13 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form
       8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.6 - Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. (as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation,
       the Company,  a  Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  DebtCo., Inc.,  a Texas
       corporation,  and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation,
       as Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit
       10.1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Current
       Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2,
       1998).

10.7 - Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer  DebtCo.  Inc.(as successor to Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
       corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation,  and Harris Trust and
       Savings  Bank,  an Illinois corporation, as Trustee,  with respect to the
       indenture identified  above as Exhibit 10.1 (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit  10.15  to the Company's  Current Report  on Form  8-K,  File No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.8 - Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996,  among  Pioneer USA  (formerly  MOC),  as
       Issuer,  the Company (Mesa's successor),  as Guarantor,  and Harris Trust
       and Savings Bank, as Trustee, relating to the 10-5/8% Senior Subordinated
       Notes Due  2006  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 4.18 to Mesa's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996).

10.9 - First Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15, 1997, among Pioneer
       USA (formerly MOC), as Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
       therein, the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee, with
       respect to  the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit  10.3 to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
       10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.10- Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Pioneer
       USA (formerly  MOC), as Issuer,  Mesa,  the Subsidiary  Guarantors  named
       therein, the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee, with
       respect to  the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.8 (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
       10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

                                       83


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.11- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  18,  1997,  among
       Pioneer USA, the Subsidiary  Guarantors named therein,  the Company,  and
       Harris Trust and Savings Bank,  as Trustee, with respect to the indenture
       identified  above as Exhibit 10.8  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
       10.6  to the Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
       filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.12- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation, the Company, a Delaware corporation,
       Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and Harris Trust and Savings
       Bank, an Illinois corporation, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
       identified  above as  Exhibit 10.8  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       10.7 to  the Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,
       filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.13- Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer NewSub 1, Inc.(as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation,
       the Company,  a  Delaware corporation,   Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc,  a  Texas
       corporation, and Harris  Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois corporation,
       as Trustee,  with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit
       10.8 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Current
       Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2,
       1998).

10.14- Sixth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc. (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc.),  a Texas
       corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation,  and Harris Trust and
       Savings  Bank, an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
       indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.8  (incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit  10.9 to the Company's Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File  No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.15- Indenture,  dated  April 12,  1995,  between  Pioneer USA  (successor  to
       Parker & Parsley),  and  The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association),
       as  Trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Parker &
       Parsley's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  dated  April 12, 1995, File No.
       001-10695).

10.16- First Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7, 1997, among Parker &
       Parsley,  The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as Trustee,  and Pioneer  USA,  with
       respect to the indenture  identified above as Exhibit 10.15 (incorporated
       by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
       10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.17- Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer USA,  a Delaware  corporation,  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.,  a Texas
       corporation,   and  The  Chase   Manhattan  Bank,   a  New  York  banking
       association, as  Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above
       as  Exhibit  10.15  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.17 to the
       Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245, filed with the
       SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.18- Third  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer New Sub1, Inc.(as successor to Pioneer USA), a Texas corporation,
       Pioneer DebtCo, Inc., a Texas corporation,  and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
       a  New  York  banking  association,   as  Trustee,  with respect  to  the
       indenture identified above as  Exhibit 10.15  (incorporated  by reference
       to Exhibit 10.18 to the  Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.19- Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of December  30,  1997,  among
       Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. (assuccessor to Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., as successor
       to   Pioneer  USA),  a  Texas  corporation,   the  Company,   a  Delaware
       corporation, Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation, and The Chase Manhattan
       Bank, a New York  banking association,  as trustee,  with  respect to the
       indenture identified above as Exhibit  10.15  (incorporated  by reference
       to Exhibit 10.19 to the  Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       84


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.20- Guarantee,  dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to the
       $150,000,000  in aggregate  principal  amount of 8-7/8%  Senior Notes due
       2005  and  $150,000,000  in  aggregate  principal amount of 8-1/4% Senior
       Notes due 2007 issued under the  indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit
       10.15  (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  10.20  to the  Company's
       Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
       January 2, 1998).

10.21- Form of 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005,  dated as of April 12, 1995, in the
       aggregate principal  amount of  $150,000,000,   together  with  Officers'
       Certificate  dated April 12, 1995,  establishing the terms of the 8- 7/8%
       Senior  Notes Due 2005  pursuant  to the  indenture  identified  above as
       Exhibit  10.15  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.2 to Parker &
       Parsley's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended June 30,
       1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.22- Form of 8-1/4%  Senior Notes due 2007,  dated as of August 22,  1995,  in
       the aggregate principal amount of  $150,000,000,  together with Officers'
       Certificate dated  August 22, 1995,  establishing the terms of the 8-1/4%
       Senior  Notes due  2007  pursuant to the  indenture  identified  above as
       Exhibit  10.15  (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  1.2 to Parker &
       Parsley's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  dated August 17, 1995, File No.
       001-10695).

10.23- Indenture,  dated  January 13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank of
       New York, as Trustee  (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit 99.1 to the
       Company's  and  Pioneer  USA's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File No.
       001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.24- First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of January 13, 1998,  among the
       Company,  Pioneer USA, as the  Subsidiary Guarantor,  and The Bank of New
       York,  as Trustee,  with  respect to the  indenture  identified  above as
       Exhibit 10.23 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's
       and Pioneer USA's Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245,  filed
       with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.25- Form of 6.50%  Senior  Notes  Due 2008 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
       reference  to Exhibit 99.3  to the  Company's and  Pioneer  USA's Current
       Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14,
       1998).

10.26- Form of 7.20%  Senior  Notes  Due 2028 of the  Company  (incorporated  by
       reference to  Exhibit  99.4 to the  Company's and  Pioneer  USA's Current
       Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14,
       1998).

10.27- Guarantee  (2008  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
       Pioneer USA  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 99.5 to the Company's
       and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed
       with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.28- Guarantee  (2028  Notes),  dated as of January 13, 1998,  entered into by
       Pioneer USA  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 99.6 to the Company's
       and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001- 13245,  filed
       with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.29- Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (Primary Facility),  dated
       as  of  December  18,  1997,  between  the   Company,  as  Borrower,  and
       NationsBank  of  Texas,  N.A.,  as  Administrative  Agent,  CIBC Inc., as
       Documentation  Agent,  Morgan  Guaranty  Trust  Company  of  New York, as
       Documentation Agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication  Agent;
       and  the  other  Co-Agents and lenders  named  therein  (incorporated  by
       reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K,
       File No.  001-13245,  filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       85


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.30 - First  Amendment to  Amended  and  Restated  Credit  Facility  Agreement
        (Primary Facility), dated as of June 29, 1998, by and among the Company,
        as Borrower, NationsBank, N.A., as Administrative  Agent, CIBC  Inc., as
        Documentation  Agent,  Morgan Guaranty  Trust Company  of  New  York, as
        Documentation Agent, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent, and
        the  Co-Agents  and other  Lenders  signatory  thereto  (incorporated by
        reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1998, File No. 001-13245).

10.31 - Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (364 Day Facility), dated
        as  of  December  18,  1997,  between  the  Company,  as  Borrower,  and
        NationsBank  of  Texas,  N.A.,  as  Administrative Agent,  CIBC Inc., as
        Documentation  Agent,  Morgan  Guaranty  Trust  Company of  New York, as
        Documentation Agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent;
        and  the  other  Co-Agents and  lenders named  therein  (incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,
        File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.32 - First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit  Facility  Agreement (364
        Day  Facility),  dated as of June 29, 1998, by and among the Company, as
        Borrower,  NationsBank,  N.A., as Administrative  Agent, CIBC  Inc.,  as
        Documentation Agent,  Morgan Guaranty  Trust Company  of  New  York,  as
        Documentation Agent, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Syndication Agent, and
        the  Co-Agents  and other  Lenders  signatory  thereto (incorporated  by
        reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1998, File No. 001-13245).

10.33 - Credit Agreement, dated as of December 18, 1997, among Chauvco, Canadian
        Imperial Bank of Commerce, as Agent, and the other Lenders named therein
        (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit  10.3 to the  Company's  Current
        Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2,
        1998).

10.34 - First  Amending  Agreement,  dated June 29, 1998,  among Pioneer Natural
        Resources Canada  Inc.  (formerly Chauvco),  Canadian  Imperial Bank  of
        Commerce, and the Lenders thereto,  with respect to the Credit Agreement
        identified  above as  Exhibit 10.33  (incorporated by  reference  to the
        Company's  Annual  Report on  Form 10-K for the  year ended December 31,
        1998, File No. 001-13245).

10.35 - Note,  dated  December 22, 1997, between the Company,  as Borrower,  and
        NationsBank  of  Texas,  N.A., as  Lender  (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.21  to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
        001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.36H- 1991 Stock  Option Plan of Mesa  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
        10(v) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December
        31, 1991).

10.37H- 1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28
        to  the Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form S-4,  dated June 27,
        1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.38H- Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  dated  February 19,  1991
        (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  Parker  &  Parsley's
        Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

10.39H- First  Amendment to the Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated
        August 23, 1991 (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  10.2 to Parker &
        Parsley's  Registration Statement on Form S-1,  dated February 28, 1992,
        Registration No. 33-46082).

10.40H- The  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit  4.1 to  the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-8,
        Registration No. 333-35087).


                                       86


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.41H- The  Company's  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  (incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's Registration  Statement on  Form  S-8,
        Registration No. 333-35165).

10.42 - Amendment No. 1 to the Company's  Employee Stock  Purchase  Plan,  dated
        December 9,  1998  (incorporated by  reference to  the  Company's Annual
        Report on  Form 10-K for the  year  ended  December 31,  1998,  File No.
        001-13245).

10.43H- The  Company's  Deferred  Compensation  Retirement Plan (incorporated by
        reference  to Exhibit  4.1 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on
        Form S-8, Registration No. 333- 39153).

10.44H- Pioneer USA  401(k) Plan  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
        the  Company's  Registration  Statement on  Form  S-8, Registration  No.
        333-39249).

10.45H- Pioneer USA  Matching Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.42
        to the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.46H- Omnibus Amendment to  Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included as
        part  of the  Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  dated as of
        November 16, 1995, between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive Officers
        identified on  Schedule 1  setting forth  additional details relating to
        the  Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive  Plan   (incorporated  by
        reference to Parker & Parsley's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.47H- Mesa  Management  Severance  Plan,  dated  April 4,  1997,  including  a
        Schedule of Participants on  Schedule A for the purpose of defining  the
        payment of certain  benefits  upon  the  termination  of  the  officer's
        employment under certain  circumstances  (incorporated by  reference  to
        Exhibit 10.29 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated
        June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.48H- Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company and
        Scott D. Sheffield,  together with a  schedule identifying substantially
        identical agreements between the  Company  and each of the  other  named
        executive  officers identified on Schedule I for the purpose of defining
        the payment of certain  benefits upon the termination  of the  officer's
        employment under  certain  circumstances  (incorporated by reference  to
        Exhibit 10.7  to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q  for the
        period ended September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.49H- Indemnification  Agreement,  dated  as of  August 8, 1997,  between  the
        Company  and  Scott D. Sheffield,  together with a schedule  identifying
        substantially identical agreements the Company and each of the Company's
        other directors and named executive  officers  identified  on Schedule I
        (incorporated by reference  to Exhibit  10.8 to the Company's  Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended  September 30,  1997,  File No.
        001-13245).

10.50 - Purchase  and Sale Agreement,  dated as of  October  22,  1997,  between
        Cometra  Energy, L.P., and  Pioneer  USA  (incorporated  by reference to
        Exhibit 10.22  to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
        001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.51 - Combination Agreement,  dated September 3, 1997, between the Company and
        Chauvco  (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 2.1  to the  Company's
        Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on
        October 2, 1997).

10.52 - Plan of  Arrangement,  as amended,  under  Section  186 of the  Business
        Corporations Act  (Alberta) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to
        the  Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 001- 13245, filed
        with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

                                       87


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.53 - Support Agreement,  dated as of December 18,  1997,  between the Company
        and Pioneer Canada  (incorporated  by reference  to  Exhibit  2.3 to the
        Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 001- 13245, filed with
        the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.54 - Stock Purchase  Agreement,  dated April 26,  1996,  between Mesa and DNR
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10 to Mesa's Current Report on
        Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 29, 1996).

10.55 - "B" Contract Production  Allocation  Agreement, dated July 29, 1991, and
        effective as of January 1, 1991, between Colorado Interstate Gas Company
        and Mesa Operating Limited  Partnership (incorporated  by  reference  to
        Exhibit 10(r) to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period  ended
        December 31, 1991).

10.56 - Amendment to "B" Contract Production  Allocation  Agreement effective as
        of January 1, 1993,  between Colorado  Interstate  Gas Company  and Mesa
        Operating  Limited  Partnership  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
        10.24 to  Mesa's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-1, Registration No.
        33-51909).

10.57 - Amarillo Supply  Agreement  between Mesa Operating Limited  Partnership,
        Seller,  and  Energas  Company,  a division of Atmos Energy Corporation,
        Buyer,  dated  effective January 2, 1993  (incorporated by  reference to
        Exhibit 10.14 to Mesa's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended
        December 31, 1995).

10.58H- Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P. (formerly P&P
        Employees 89-B GP), dated October 31, 1989, among Parker & Parsley, Ltd.
        and   the   Investor  Partners  (as   defined  therein,  which  includes
        individuals  who  are  directors  and  executive  officers  of  Parker &
        Parsley), together with a  schedule identifying  substantially identical
        documents  and  setting  forth  the  material  details  in  which  those
        documents differ from the foregoing document  (incorporated by reference
        to  Exhibit 10.50 to Parker & Parsley's  Registration  Statement on Form
        S-4, dated December 31, 1990, Registration No. 33-38436).

10.59H- Amendment to  Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P Employees 89-B GP, dated
        May 31, 1990, among Parker & Parsley, Ltd. and the Investor Partners (as
        defined  therein,  which  includes  individuals who  are  directors  and
        executives officers of  Parker  &  Parsley),  together  with  a schedule
        identifying  substantially identical  documents  and setting  forth  the
        material details in which those  documents  differ  form  the  foregoing
        document  (incorporated by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.51  to  Parker  &
        Parsley's Registration  Statement on Form S-4,  dated December 31, 1990,
        Registration No. 33-38436).

10.60H- Schedule  identifying  additional documents  substantially  identical to
        the  Amendment to  Agreement of  Partnership of  P&P  Employees  89-B GP
        included as Exhibit  10.59 and  setting forth the  material  details  in
        which  those  documents  differ  from  that  document  (incorporated  by
        reference to Exhibit 10.52 to Parker & Parsley's Registration  Statement
        on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.61H- Agreement   of  Partnership  of  P&P   Employees  90  Spraberry  Private
        Development  GP, dated October 16, 1990,  among  Parker & Parsley, Ltd.,
        James D.  Moring,  and the General  Partners (as defined  therein, which
        includes individuals who are directors and executive  officers of Parker
        & Parsley),  and form of  Amendment to Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P
        Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development GP,  together with a schedule
        identifying  substantially  identical  documents  and  setting forth the
        material  details in  which  those  documents  differ from the foregoing
        document  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.52  to  Parker &
        Parsley's  Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated December 31, 1990,
        Registration No. 33- 38436).

                                       88


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.62H- Amendment to Agreement of Partnership of Parker & Parsley 90-A GP, dated
        February 19,  1991,  among Parker & Parsley  Development Company and the
        Investor  Partners (as defined therein,  which includes  individuals who
        are directors and executive officers of Parker & Parsley), together with
        a schedule  identifying  substantially  identical  documents and setting
        forth the  material  details  in which those  documents  differ from the
        foregoing document (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.58 to Parker
        & Parsley's Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,
        Registration No. 33-46082).

10.63H- Agreement of Partnership of P&P Employees  91-A, GP, dated September 30,
        1991, among  Parker & Parsley Development Company,  James D. Moring, and
        the General Partners (as defined therein, which includes individuals who
        are directors and executive officers of Parker & Parsley), together with
        a schedule  identifying  substantially  identical  documents and setting
        forth  the material  details in which  those  documents  differ from the
        foregoing document (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to Parker
        & Parsley's Registration Statement on Form S-1, dated February 28, 1992,
        Registration No. 33-46082).

10.64H- Amendment  to  Agreement of  Partnership  of P&P  Employees 90 Spraberry
        Private Development GP,  dated April 22,  1991,  among the Partners  (as
        defined  therein,  which  includes  individuals  who  are  directors and
        executive officers of  Parker & Parsley)  (incorporated  by reference to
        Exhibit 10.67 to Parker & Parsley's  Registration Statement on Form S-1,
        dated February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.65 - Share Purchase Agreement,  dated  February 13, 1998,  among the Company,
        Trimac Corporation and 761795 Alberta Ltd. (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit  99.1 to the  Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
        001-13245, filed with the SEC on February 23, 1998).

10.66 - Share Purchase Agreement,  dated  February 13, 1998,  among the Company,
        398215  Alberta  Ltd. and Guy J. Turcotte (incorporated  by reference to
        Exhibit 99.2 to the  Company's Current  Report  on  Form  8-K,  File No.
        001-13245, filed with the SEC on February 23, 1998).

10.67 - Option to Purchase  Agreement,  dated  December 16,  1998,  by and among
        Costilla  Energy, Inc. ("Costilla"),  Pioneer USA, and Pioneer Resources
        Producing, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's
        statement on  Schedule 13D  relating to the  common  stock of  Costilla,
        filed with the SEC on December 22, 1998, File No. 0-21411).

10.68 - Purchase  and Sale  Agreement,  dated December  16,  1998,  by and among
        Costilla,   Pioneer   USA,  and   Pioneer  Resources   Producing,   L.P.
        (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 2 to the Company's statement  on
        Schedule 13D  relating to the  common stock of Costilla,  filed with the
        SEC on December 22, 1998, File No. 0-21411).

10.69 - Purchase and Sale Agreement,  dated May 16, 1999, by and between Pioneer
        USA and Pioneer Resources Producing, L.P.,  as Seller,  and Prize Energy
        Corp., as Purchaser  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.1 to the
        Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K  filed with the  SEC on July 13,
        1999).

10.70 - Second Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (Primary Facility)
        by  and  among   Pioneer  Natural   Resources   Company,  as   borrower,
        NationsBank, N.A., as Administrative  Agent, CIBC Inc. as  Documentation
        Agent,  Morgan  Guarantee  Trust  Company of  New York, as Documentation
        Agent, Chase Bank of Texas, National Association, as Syndication  Agent,
        The  Co-Agents  and  certain  other  lenders  dated as of March 19, 1999
        (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 10.69  to the  Company's Annual
        Report on  Form 10-K for the  period ended  December 31, 1998,  File No.
        1-13245).


                                       89


<PAGE>


Exhibit
Number                             Description
- -------                            -----------

10.71 - Second Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement (364 Day Facility)
        by  and   among   Pioneer  Natural   Resources  Company,   as  borrower,
        NationsBank,  N.A., as Administrative  Agent, CIBC Inc. as Documentation
        Agent,  Morgan  Guarantee  Trust Company of  New York, as  Documentation
        Agent, Chase Bank of Texas, National Association,  as Syndication Agent,
        The  Co-Agents  and  certain  other  lenders  dated as of March 19, 1999
        (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 10.70 to the  Company's  Annual
        Report on  Form 10-K for  the period  ended  December 31, 1998, File No.
        1-13245).

10.72*- First Amendment to the  Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective as
        of November 23, 1998.

10.73*- Amendment No. 2 to  the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective as
        of May 20, 1999.

10.74*- Amendment  No. 2 to the  Company's  Employee Stock  Purchase Plan, dated
        December 14, 1999.

10.75 - Voting and  Shareholders Agreement  dated as of February 8, 2000 between
        Prize  Energy  Corp.  and its stockholders (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's statement on Schedule 13D relating to the
        common stock of  Prize Energy Corp.,  filed with the SEC on February 18,
        2000, File No. 005-54797).

10.76*- Amendment No. 3 to the  Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective as
        of February 17, 2000.

21.1* - Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1* - Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

23.2* - Consent of KPMG LLP.

27.1* - Financial Data Schedule

- ---------------

*Filed herewith

H Executive  Compensation Plan or Arrangement  previously filed pursuant to Item
  14(c).

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       On December 14, 1999,  the Company filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K to
report, under Items 5. and 7., supplemental information to the Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the SECon July 13, 1999. Specifically, the Company's Current
Report  on Form  8-K  dated  December  14,  1999  supplemented  the  information
regarding the  disposition of assets and related  proforma  condensed  financial
statements and supplemental data provided under Items 2. and 7. of the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 13, 1999.

(c)    Exhibits

        The exhibits to this Report  required to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c)
are listed under "Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial  Statement Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K - Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits - Exhibits" above and
in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedules

        No  financial  statement  schedules  are required to be filed as part of
this Report or they are inapplicable.

                                       90


<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date:  February 29, 2000                 By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                              -----------------------------
                                                 Scott D. Sheffield, President

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  Report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                        Title                     Date
         ---------                        -----                     ----


  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield     Chairman of the Board, President  February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------     and Chief Executive Officer
Scott D. Sheffield              (principal executive officer)


  /s/ Timothy L. Dove        Executive Vice President and      February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------     Chief Financial Officer
Timothy L. Dove


  /s/ Rich Dealy             Vice President and Chief          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------     Accounting Officer
Rich Dealy


  /s/ James R. Baroffio      Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner    Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton      Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones         Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Richard E. Rainwater   Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
Richard E.  Rainwater


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.  Director                         February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


  /s/ Robert L. Stillwell    Director                          February 29, 2000
- ---------------------------
Robert L. Stillwell

                                     91


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.72

                                 FIRST AMENDMENT

                                       TO

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                            LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

       Pioneer  Natural   Resources   Company,   a  Delaware   corporation  (the
"Company"),  has  adopted  this First  Amendment  to Pioneer  Natural  Resources
Company Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") effective as of November 23, 1998.

       "Section 1.7 of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing all references to
20% with 30%."

       Except as to the extent  modified by this  amendment,  the Plan is hereby
ratified and confirmed in all respects.

       IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company,  acting by and
through its officer hereunto duly authorized, has executed this instrument as of
the date first written above.

                                   PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                               By:   /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                    ----------------------------------
                                     Scott D. Sheffield
                                     President


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

                                                                EXHIBIT 10.73

                                 AMENDMENT NO. 2

                                       TO

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                            LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

       AMENDMENT NO. 2  (this "Amendment",  to that certain  Long-Term Incentive
Plan (the  "Plan",  of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company (the  "Company")  is
effective as of May 20, 1999.

                                    RECITALS

       WHEREAS, the Company has adopted the Plan; and

       WHEREAS,  the Board of Directors and the shareholders of the Company have
approved an amendment to the Plan, which amendment is memorialized below in this
Amendment.

       NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

       1.     Deletion  of  Section  5.  Section 5  of  the Plan and  any cross-
references to that Section are hereby deleted in their entirety.

       2.     Confirmation of the Plan. Except as to the extent modified by this
Amendment, the Plan is hereby

ratified and confirmed in all respects.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the Company has caused this Amendment to be executed
by its duly authorized officer to be effective as of May 20, 1999.

                                     PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                                 By:   /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                      ---------------------------------
                                       Name:  Mark L. Withrow
                                       Title: Executive Vice President and
                                              General Counsel





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

                                                                EXHIBIT 10.74

                                 AMENDMENT NO. 2

                                     TO THE

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                          EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

       Pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 15 thereof,  the Pioneer  Natural
Resources Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") is hereby amended in
the following respects only:

       Effective as of January 1, 2000, the first sentence of  Subparagraph  (b)
of Paragraph 7 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

       The option price per share of Stock to be paid by each Eligible  Employee
       on each  exercise of his option shall be an amount equal to the lesser of
       85% of the Fair  Market  Value of the Stock on the date of exercise or on
       the date of grant.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  this Amendment has been executed as of this 14th day
of December, 1999.

                                      PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY




                                  By:   /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                                        ----------------------------------
                                        Mark L. Withrow
                                        Executive Vice President and
                                        General Counsel





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.76

                                  Amendment No. 3
                                        to

                         PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                             LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN


     AMENDMENT NO. 3 (this "Amendment") to that certain Long-Term Incentive Plan
(the "Plan")  of Pioneer Natural Resources Company (the "Company") is effective
as of February 17, 2000.

                                     RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the Company has adopted the Plan; and

     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved an amendment to
the Plan, which amendment is memorialized below in this Amendment.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

     "Section 1.7 of the  Plan is hereby  amended by replacing all references to
30% with 40%."

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be executed by
its duly authorized officer to be effective as of February 17, 2000.

PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



By:  /s/ Mark L. Withrow
    -------------------------------
    Name:  Mark L. Withrow
    Title: Executive Vice President and
           General Counsel

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

                                                             EXHIBIT 21.1

                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization        Subsidiaries
- ------------------------  ------------
Delaware                  Bridge Oil (U.S.A.) Inc.
Bermuda                   CR International Limited
Delaware                  DMLP Co.
Delaware                  Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                     Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                  P&PCanada LP Co.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Turks and Caicos Islands  Parker & Parsley Capital LLC
Cayman Islands            Parker & Parsley International Holdings, Ltd.
Australia                 Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Holdings Pty
                            Limited
Australia                 Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Pty Limited
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Resources Scholarship Foundation
New York                  Parker & Parsley Transfer Agent Corporation
Delaware                  Pioneer Holding Inc.
Delaware                  Pioneer International Resources Company
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Argentina                 Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.
Canada                    Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Guatemala Ltd.
South Africa              Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty) Limited
Argentina                 Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Delaware                  Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Delaware                  Pioneer Resources Inc.
Bahamas                   Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Delaware                  Pioneer Resources China, Inc.
Bahamas                   Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Delaware                  Pioneer Resources Producing L.P.
Texas                     Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                  PNR Resources (USA) Inc.
Texas                     PNRC Properties L.P.
Delaware                  Westpan NGL Co.







<PAGE>



State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization        Subsidiaries
- ------------------------  ------------
Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
is the managing general partner
- -----------------------------------------------------

Texas                     Parker & Parsley 81-I, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 81-II, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 82-I, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 82-II, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 82-III, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 83-A, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 83-B, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 84-A, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 85-A, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 85-B, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley Private Investment 85-A Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley Selected 85 Private Investment, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 86-A, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 86-B, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 86-C, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley Private Investment 86, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 87-B Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 87, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-B, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-C, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 88-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 89-A, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 89-B, L.P.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 89-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 89-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-A, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-B, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90-C, L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Private Investment 90 Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees Private Investment 90 Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private Development
                            Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development L.P.


<PAGE>


State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization        Subsidiaries
- ------------------------  ------------
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 91-A, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 91-B, L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 91-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley 91-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 91-A G.P.
Texas                     P&P Employees 91-B G.P.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 1992 Direct Investment Program, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 1993 Direct Investment Program, Ltd.
Texas                     Parker & Parsley 1994 Direct Investment Program, Ltd.
Texas                     Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.



<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
333-35087,  No.  333-35165,  No. 333- 39153, No.  333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No.
333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No. 333-42315,  No. 333- 44439 and
No. 333-39381) on Form S-3 of Pioneer Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries
of our report dated January 24, 2000, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999.





                                         Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas
February 25, 2000


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.2

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No. 333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153, No. 333-39249, No. 33-44851, No.
333-35085  and No.  333-35175)  on Form  S-8 and  Registration  Statements  (No.
333-42315,  No.  333-44439  and No.  333-39381)  on Form S-3 of Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company and  subsidiaries  and its  predecessors  of our report dated
February  13,  1998,  related  to the  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  and
subsidiaries  consolidated  statements of  operations  and  comprehensive  loss,
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1997, which
report  appears in the December  31, 1999 annual  report on Form 10-K of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company.



                                                 KPMG LLP

Midland, Texas
March 23, 1999


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<CIK> 0001038357
<NAME> PNR
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1999
<CASH>                                          34,788
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  118,575
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                     13,721
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               183,136
<PP&E>                                       3,297,924
<DEPRECIATION>                                 751,956
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               2,929,473
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          196,813
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         1,009
<OTHER-SE>                                     773,605
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 2,929,473
<SALES>                                        644,646
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               710,135
<CGS>                                          159,530
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  528,220
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                34,631
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             170,344
<INCOME-PRETAX>                               (23,060)
<INCOME-TAX>                                     (600)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                           (22,460)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                  (22,460)
<EPS-BASIC>                                      (.22)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (.22)


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
