-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MVJHTQx2Iw8fWDXiTP6vzFJeS+YM5wi0GpHQhigX6Gk1sk/5MwijpCAOBq0wzhNP
 s2kjwbd5SZryoZSP5sdCTg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-07-000022.txt : 20070220
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-07-000022.hdr.sgml : 20070219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20070220171610
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-07-000022
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20070220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20070220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1206

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		07636386

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>pxd10k06.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06
<TEXT>
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              /x/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                             THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                                   ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006
                                       or

              / / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                                OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                        For the transition period from to

                         Commission File Number: 1-13245
                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                75-2702753
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or         (I.R.S. Employer
                  organization)                         Identification No.)
5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas               75039
    (Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
    -------------------               -----------------------------------------
      Common Stock...................          New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x     No
                                              -----      -----

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes       No  x
                                                        -----    -----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes    x     No
     -----        ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
           ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated  filer or a  non-accelerated  filer.  See definition of "accelerated
filer and large  accelerated  filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange  Act.  (Check
one):

Large accelerated filer  x   Accelerated filer      Non-accelerated filer
                       ----                   ----                       ----

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes      No  x
                           ----    ----

Aggregate market  value of the  voting and  non-voting common
equity held by  non-affiliates computed  by reference to  the
price  at  which  the  common  equity was  last  sold, or the
average bid and asked price of such  common equity, as of the
last business day of the registrant's most recently completed
second fiscal quarter............................................ $5,732,341,639
Number of shares of Common Stock  outstanding  as of
February 13, 2007................................................    123,502,029

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1) Proxy  Statement for Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held during May
2007 -- Referenced in Part III of this report.

<PAGE>


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                        Page
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements...........     3
Definitions of Certain Terms and Conventions Used Herein.............     4

                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business...................................................     5
             General.................................................     5
             Available Information...................................     5
             Mission and Strategies..................................     5
             Business Activities.....................................     6
             Operations by Geographic Area...........................     8
             Marketing of Production.................................     8
             Competition, Markets and Regulations....................     8
Item 1A.  Risk Factors...............................................    10
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments..................................    15
Item 2.   Properties.................................................    15
             Proved Reserves.........................................    16
             Description of Properties...............................    18
             Selected Oil and Gas Information........................    25
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings..........................................    32
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders........    32

                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
          Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities..........    33
             Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and
             Affiliated Purchasers...................................    33
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data....................................    34
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations of Operations....................    36
             Strategic Initiatives and Goals.........................    36
             Financial and Operating Performance.....................    36
             2007 Outlook and Activities.............................    37
             Acquisitions............................................    38
             Divestitures............................................    38
             Results of Operations...................................    39
             Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity....    47
             Critical Accounting Estimates...........................    52
             New Accounting Pronouncements...........................    55
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.    56
             Quantitative Disclosures................................    56
             Qualitative Disclosures.................................    60
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................    63
             Index to Consolidated Financial Statements..............    63
             Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.    64
             Consolidated Financial Statements.......................    65
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............    71
             Unaudited Supplementary Information.....................   109
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosure...................................   115
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures....................................   115

                                       2


<PAGE>


Item 9B.  Other Information..........................................   117
                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.....   117
Item 11.  Executive Compensation.....................................   117
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management and Related Stockholder Matters.................   117
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
          Director Independence......................................   118
Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services.....................   118

                                     PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules....................   119
    Signatures.......................................................   125
    Exhibit Index....................................................   126

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

     Parts I and II of this annual  report on Form 10-K (the  "Report")  contain
forward-looking  statements that involve risks and  uncertainties.  When used in
this  document,   the  words  "believes,"  "plans,"  "expects,"   "anticipates,"
"intends,"  "continue," "may," "will," "could," "should," "future," "potential,"
"estimate," or the negative of such terms and similar expressions as they relate
to  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer"  or the  "Company")  or its
management   are   intended  to   identify   forward-looking   statements.   The
forward-looking  statements  are based on the  Company's  current  expectations,
assumptions,  estimates  and  projections  about the Company and the industry in
which the Company operates.  Although the Company believes that the expectations
and assumptions reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, they
involve  risks and  uncertainties  that are  difficult  to predict  and, in many
cases,  beyond the Company's  control.  Accordingly,  no assurances can be given
that the actual  events and results will not be  materially  different  than the
anticipated  results described in the forward-looking  statements.  See "Item 1.
Business -- Competition,  Markets and Regulations",  "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and
"Item 7A.  Quantitative  and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" for a
description  of various  factors  that could  materially  affect the  ability of
Pioneer to achieve the  anticipated  results  described  in the  forward-looking
statements.  The Company  undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements
except as required by law.

                                       3



<PAGE>


Definitions of Certain Terms and Conventions Used Herein

Within this Report, the following terms and conventions have specific meanings:

o    "Bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 United States gallons.
o    "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet.
o    "BOE" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to
     express oil and gas  volumes on a  comparable  oil  equivalent  basis.  Gas
     equivalents  are  determined  under the relative  energy  content method by
     using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or natural gas liquid.
o    "BOEPD" means BOE per day.
o    "Btu"  means  British  thermal  unit,  which is a measure  of the amount of
     energy  required to raise the  temperature of one pound of water one degree
     Fahrenheit.
o    "CBM" means coal bed methane.
o    "field  fuel" means gas  consumed  to operate  field  equipment  (primarily
     compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point.
o    "GAAP"  means  accounting  principles  that are  generally  accepted in the
     United States of America.
o    "LIBOR"  means London  Interbank  Offered  Rate,  which is a market rate of
     interest.
o    "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls.
o    "MBOE" means one thousand BOEs.
o    "Mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume.
o    "MMBbl" means one million Bbls.
o    "MMBOE" means one million BOEs.
o    "MMBtu" means one million Btus.
o    "MMcf" means one million cubic feet.
o    "NGL" means natural gas liquid.
o    "NYMEX" means the New York Mercantile Exchange.
o    "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
o    "Pioneer" or the "Company" means Pioneer Natural  Resources Company and its
     subsidiaries.
o    "proved  reserves" mean the estimated  quantities of crude oil, natural gas
     and natural gas liquids which  geological and engineering  data demonstrate
     with  reasonable  certainty  to be  recoverable  in future years from known
     reservoirs under existing economic and operating  conditions,  i.e., prices
     and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration
     of changes in existing  prices  provided only by contractual  arrangements,
     but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
         (i) Reservoirs are  considered  proved  if  economic  producibility  is
     supported  by either actual production or conclusive  formation  test.  The
     area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that  portion delineated
     by drilling  and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts,  if any; and
     (B) the immediately adjoining portions  not yet drilled,  but  which can be
     reasonably  judged as  economically  productive  on the basis of  available
     geological  and  engineering  data. In the absence of  information on fluid
     contacts,  the lowest known structural  occurrence of hydrocarbons controls
     the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
         (ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of
     improved recovery  techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the
     "proved"  classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the
     operation of an installed  program in the reservoir,  provides  support for
     the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
         (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:(A) oil
     that  may  become   available  from  known  reservoirs  but  is  classified
     separately as "indicated additional  reserves";  (B) crude oil, natural gas
     and natural gas  liquids,  the  recovery of which is subject to  reasonable
     doubt because of uncertainty as to geology,  reservoir  characteristics  or
     economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids,  that
     may occur in  undrilled  prospects;  and (D)  crude  oil,  natural  gas and
     natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite
     and other such sources.
o    "SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
o    "Standardized  Measure"  means the  after-tax  present  value of  estimated
     future net revenues of proved  reserves,  determined in accordance with the
     rules and  regulations  of the SEC, using prices and costs in effect at the
     specified date and a 10 percent discount rate.
o    "VPP" means volumetric production payment.
o    "U.S." means United States.
o    With  respect to  information  on the working  interest in wells,  drilling
     locations  and  acreage,  "net"  wells,  drilling  locations  and acres are
     determined by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by
     the Company's working interest in such wells,  drilling locations or acres.
     Unless  otherwise   specified,   wells,   drilling  locations  and  acreage
     statistics  quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or
     acres.
o    Unless  otherwise  indicated,  all currency  amounts are  expressed in U.S.
     dollars.


                                       4


<PAGE>



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

     Pioneer is a Delaware  corporation  whose common stock is listed and traded
on the NYSE.  The Company is a large  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and
production  company  with  current  operations  in the  United  States,  Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.

     The  Company's  executive  offices are located at 5205 N.  O'Connor  Blvd.,
Suite  200,  Irving,  Texas  75039.  The  Company's  telephone  number  is (972)
444-9001.  The Company  maintains  other offices in Anchorage,  Alaska;  Denver,
Colorado;  Midland,  Texas; Calgary,  Canada; London,  England;  Lagos, Nigeria;
Capetown, South Africa and Tunis, Tunisia. At December 31, 2006, the Company had
1,624 employees, 924 of whom were employed in field and plant operations.

Available Information

     Pioneer files or furnishes  annual,  quarterly and current  reports,  proxy
statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act").  The  public may read and copy any  materials  that
Pioneer files with the SEC at the SEC's Public  Reference  Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC
maintains  an Internet  website that  contains  reports,  proxy and  information
statements,  and other information  regarding issuers,  including Pioneer,  that
file  electronically  with the SEC.  The public can  obtain any  documents  that
Pioneer files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

     The  Company  also makes  available  free of charge  through  its  internet
website  (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q,  Current  Reports  on Form 8-K and,  if  applicable,  amendments  to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon
as reasonably  practicable after it electronically  files such material with, or
furnishes it to, the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

     The Company's mission is to enhance shareholder  investment returns through
strategies that maximize Pioneer's long-term  profitability and net asset value.
The  strategies  employed to achieve this mission are  predicated on maintaining
financial  flexibility and capital allocation  discipline.  These strategies are
anchored by the Company's long-lived Spraberry oil field and Hugoton,  Raton and
West Panhandle gas fields which have an estimated  remaining  productive life in
excess of 40 years.  Underlying these fields are approximately 89 percent of the
Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2006.

     Strategic  initiatives  and goals.  During 2006,  the Company  accomplished
significant  goals underlying the strategic  initiatives  established in 2005 to
enhance shareholder value and investment returns.  Specifically, the Company (i)
essentially completed its $1 billion share repurchase program, (ii) successfully
divested  its  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  and  Argentina  assets  at  attractive
valuations,  (iii)  allocated  and focused its  investment  capital more heavily
towards  predictable  oil and gas basins in North America that delivered  strong
production  growth and (iv) lowered its risk profile by expanding North American
unconventional  resource  investments  while  reducing  higher-risk  exploration
expenditures.

     2007 Plans.  During 2007,  the Company plans to: (i) grow  production by 10
percent or more,  anchored by  continued  low-risk  development  drilling in the
Spraberry oil and Raton gas fields,  (ii) commence production at the South Coast
Gas  project in South  Africa in the second  half of 2007,  (iii)  complete  the
construction  and  installation of facilities at the Company's  Alaskan Oooguruk
project and initiate  drilling in late 2007, with first production in 2008, (iv)
progress  development  of the Tunisian  and Edwards  Trend  resource  plays into
production and reserve growth areas,  (v) advance  several other  unconventional
resource plays initiated during 2006, (vi)  selectively  explore for and develop
proved reserves in areas that it believes will offer superior reserve growth and
profitability  potential;  (vii) evaluate  opportunities  to acquire oil and gas
properties  that will  complement  the  Company's  exploration  and  development

                                       5


<PAGE>

drilling activities;  (viii) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to
maximize the Company's exploration and development successes;  and (ix) maintain
liquidity,  allowing  the  Company  to take  advantage  of  future  exploration,
development and acquisition opportunities.

Business Activities

     The  Company  is an  independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  production
company.  Pioneer's  purpose is to  competitively  and  profitably  explore for,
develop and produce oil, NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the Company sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor quality  differences,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from units
offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive advantage is gained
in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing experienced
management  and staff that will lead the Company to prudent  capital  investment
decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management.

     Petroleum  industry.  For the last several years the petroleum industry has
generally  been  characterized  by volatile oil, NGL and gas  commodity  prices.
During 2006, the Company's  performance  was also impacted by increasing  costs,
particularly higher drilling and well servicing rig rates and drilling supplies.
During  recent  years,  world oil prices  increased  in response to increases in
demand from Asian  economies and the perceived  threat of supply  disruptions in
the  Middle  East,  Nigeria,  Venezuela  and other  areas.  In 2006,  oil prices
initially increased due to supply uncertainty  surrounding Middle East conflicts
and then later  decreased  on  moderating  world  demand and the easing of world
tension,  especially in the Middle East.  North American gas prices fell in 2006
as a result of increased  North American  drilling and  production,  a very mild
start to winter and a very large gas  inventory  overhang.  Significant  factors
that will  impact  2007  commodity  prices  include  developments  in the issues
currently impacting Iraq and Iran and the Middle East in general;  the extent to
which members of the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting Countries ("OPEC") and
other oil  exporting  nations are able to continue to manage oil supply  through
export quotas;  and overall North  American gas supply and demand  fundamentals,
including the impact of increasing  liquefied natural gas ("LNG")  deliveries to
the United States.

     To mitigate the impact of commodity  price  volatility on the Company's net
asset  value,  Pioneer  utilizes  commodity  hedge  contracts.   See  "Item  7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  regarding  the impact to oil and gas
revenues  during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from the Company's  hedging  activities and
the Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2006.

     The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is anchored by the  Spraberry  oil
field located in West Texas, the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas,
the Raton gas field  located in southern  Colorado  and the West  Panhandle  gas
field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has
exploration  and  development   opportunities  and/or  oil  and  gas  production
activities  in the Gulf of Mexico,  the onshore Gulf Coast area and Alaska,  and
internationally in Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.
Combined,  these assets create a portfolio of resources and  opportunities  that
are well  balanced  among  oil,  NGLs and gas,  and that are also well  balanced
between   long-lived,   dependable   production,   lower-risk   exploration  and
development  opportunities  and a limited  number of  higher-impact  exploration
opportunities.  Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that
represent the  professional  disciplines and sciences that will allow Pioneer to
maximize  the  long-term  profitability  and net  asset  value  inherent  in its
physical assets.

     The  Company  provides  administrative,  legal,  financial  and  management
support to United States and foreign  subsidiaries that explore for, develop and
produce oil, NGL and gas reserves. Production operations are principally located
domestically in Texas, Kansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Utah and the Gulf of Mexico,
and internationally in Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.

     Production.  The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average
daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development  drilling,  production
enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing
the  controllable  costs associated with the production  activities.  During the
year ended December 31, 2006, the Company's average daily  production,  on a BOE
basis, decreased as a result of (i) initiation of oil deliveries in January 2006
associated with certain VPP  transactions  completed in 2005,  which reduced the
Company's  reported  production and (ii)  production  decreases in the Company's

                                       6


<PAGE>


Sable oil field in South  Africa and the Adam  Concession  oil field in Tunisia.
Partially  offsetting the decreases in production  volumes were increases in oil
production in the Spraberry  field and gas  production  from the Raton field and
Canada as part of the Company's aggressive 2006 drilling program.  Excluding the
delivery  of the VPP  volumes  in 2006 (5.6  MMBOE)  and 2005 (2.5  MMBOE),  the
Company's North American production increased  approximately nine percent, which
the Company  believes  provides a better  understanding of the actual results of
the  Company's  2006 North  American  drilling  program  excluding the increased
scheduled VPP deliveries. Production, price and cost information with respect to
the  Company's  properties  for 2006,  2005 and 2004 is set forth under "Item 2.
Properties -- Selected Oil and Gas  Information  --  Production,  Price and Cost
Data".

     Development  activities.  The  Company  seeks to  increase  its oil and gas
reserves,   production  and  cash  flow  through  development  drilling  and  by
conducting other production enhancement activities,  such as well recompletions.
During the three years ended December 31, 2006, the Company  drilled 2,346 gross
(2,159 net) wells, 94 percent of which were successfully completed as productive
wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $3.0 billion.

     The Company  believes that its current property base provides a substantial
inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow growth. The
Company's  proved  reserves as of December 31, 2006 include  proved  undeveloped
reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 202 MMBbls of oil
and NGLs and 1,082 Bcf of gas. Development of these proved reserves will require
future  capital  expenditures.  The timing of the  development of these reserves
will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's expected
operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company believes
that its current  portfolio of proved reserves and unproved  prospects  provides
attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three
to five years.

     Exploratory  activities.  The Company has devoted  significant  efforts and
resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as
acquiring a portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities  complemented by a
limited  number of  higher-impact  exploration  opportunities.  During 2006, the
Company divested substantially all of its assets in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico
and Argentina and focused its  exploration  efforts towards  lower-risk  onshore
North America and Africa opportunities. In the 2007 capital spending budget, the
Company  expects to spend  approximately  20 percent of its $1.1 billion capital
budget to test and develop  lower-risk  resource  plays in onshore North America
and Tunisia,  and another five percent for  high-impact  exploration in the U.S.
(principally  Alaska) and West Africa.  Exploratory  drilling  involves  greater
risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than
development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors
- -- Drilling activities" below.

     Acquisition  activities.  The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide exploration/exploitation  opportunities. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
Company invested $223.2 million, $272.9 million and $2.6 billion,  respectively,
of  acquisition  capital to purchase  proved oil and gas  properties,  including
additional  interests in its existing  assets,  and to acquire new prospects for
future  exploitation  and  exploration  activities.  See  Note  C  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for a description of the Company's acquisitions during 2006,
2005 and 2004.

     The Company  periodically  evaluates and pursues acquisition  opportunities
(including  opportunities to acquire  particular oil and gas assets and entities
owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations
or other business  combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be
in various  stages of evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such stages may take the
form  of  internal  financial  analysis,  oil  and  gas  reserve  analysis,  due
diligence,   the   submission  of  an   indication   of  interest,   preliminary
negotiations,  negotiation  of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive
agreement.  The success of any  acquisition  is  uncertain  and will depend on a
number of factors,  some of which are outside the Company's  control.  See "Item
1A. Risk Factors -- Acquisitions".

     Asset  divestitures.  The Company  regularly reviews its asset base for the
purpose of  identifying  nonstrategic  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does

                                       7


<PAGE>


not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  increasing
financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. See Notes N, T and V of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for specific  information  regarding the Company's asset
divestitures, VPPs and discontinued operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004.

     The  Company  anticipates  that  it  will  continue  to  sell  nonstrategic
properties  or other  assets  from time to time to  increase  capital  resources
available  for  other  activities,   to  achieve  operating  and  administrative
efficiencies and to improve profitability.

Operations by Geographic Area

     The  Company  operates  in one  industry  segment,  that  being oil and gas
exploration  and  production.  See  Note R of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
geographic  operating segment  information,  including results of operations and
segment assets.

Marketing of Production

     General. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods
that are consistent with industry  practices.  Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas
production are negotiated based on factors normally  considered in the industry,
such as the index or spot  price  for gas or the  posted  price  for oil,  price
regulations,  distance from the well to the pipeline,  well pressure,  estimated
reserves,  commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions.  See "Qualitative
Disclosures" in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market
Risk" for additional discussion of operations and price risk.

     Significant  purchasers.  During 2006, the Company's significant purchasers
of oil, NGLs and gas were Oneok Resources (12 percent),  Plains Marketing LP (12
percent) and Occidental Energy Marketing,  Inc. (11 percent).  The Company is of
the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser  would not have an adverse effect
on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

     Hedging activities. The Company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap
and collar  contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on
the  commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the cash flow to
fund the Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and  expenditure  plans and (iii)
reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects.  See "Item
7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations"  for a description of the Company's  hedging  activities,  "Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  information  concerning the impact on oil and gas
revenues  during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from commodity  hedging  activities and the
Company's open and terminated commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2006.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

     Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number
of companies,  including major integrated and other independent  companies,  and
individuals  engage  in the  exploration  for  and  development  of oil  and gas
properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties
suitable for development or exploration.  Acquisitions of oil and gas properties
have been an important element of the Company's  growth.  The Company intends to
continue to acquire  oil and gas  properties  that  complement  its  operations,
provide  exploration  and  development  opportunities  and  potentially  provide
superior  returns  on  investment.  The  principal  competitive  factors  in the
acquisition  of oil and gas  properties  include the staff and data necessary to
identify,  evaluate and purchase such  properties  and the  financial  resources
necessary to acquire and develop the properties.  Higher recent commodity prices
have  increased the cost of properties  available for  acquisition.  Many of the
Company's  competitors  are  substantially  larger and have  financial and other
resources greater than those of the Company.

     Markets.  The  Company's  ability to produce and market  oil,  NGLs and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these  commodity

                                       8


<PAGE>


prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected,  the prices for any
commodity that the Company  produces will generally  approximate  current market
prices in the geographic region of the production.

     Governmental  regulations.  Enterprises  that  sell  securities  in  public
markets are subject to regulatory  oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the
NYSE. This regulatory  oversight imposes on the Company the  responsibility  for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures that will ensure
that  material   information  relating  to  the  Company  and  its  consolidated
subsidiaries  is made known to the Company's  management  and that the financial
statements  and other  information  included  in  submissions  to the SEC do not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary  to make  the  statements  made in such  submissions  not  misleading.
Compliance with some of these  regulations is costly and regulations are subject
to change or reinterpretation.

     Oil and gas  exploration  and  production  operations  are also  subject to
various  types of  regulation  by local,  state,  federal and foreign  agencies.
Additionally,  the Company's  operations are subject to state  conservation laws
and regulations,  including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and
gas properties,  the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and
the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign
governments  also generally impose a production or severance tax with respect to
the  production and sale of oil and gas within their  respective  jurisdictions.
The regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's cost
of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

     Additional  proposals  and  proceedings  that might  affect the oil and gas
industry are  considered  from time to time by the United States  Congress,  the
Federal Energy Regulatory  Commission,  state regulatory  bodies, the courts and
foreign  governments.  The Company  cannot predict when or if any such proposals
might become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

     Environmental and health controls.  The Company's operations are subject to
numerous U.S. federal,  state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations
governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating
to environmental and health  protection.  These laws and regulations may require
the  acquisition  of a permit  before  drilling  commences,  restrict  the type,
quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and  other  protected  areas or impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting from oil and gas operations.  The Company's  inability to obtain these
permits in a timely manner or at all could cause delays or otherwise  negatively
impact the Company's ability to implement its business plans.  Failure to comply
with these  environmental  laws and  regulations may result in the assessment of
administrative,  civil,  and  criminal  penalties,  the  imposition  of remedial
obligations,  and the issuance of injunctions that limit or prevent  operations.
Although  the  Company   believes   that   compliance   with  U.S.  and  foreign
environmental  laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on
its future  results of operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial
costs and liabilities  are inherent in oil and gas operations,  and there can be
no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred or that
curtailment  in  production  or  processing  might not arise as a result of such
compliance.  Moreover, it is possible that other developments,  such as stricter
environmental  laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons
resulting from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial costs and
liabilities.

     In the U.S., the Comprehensive  Environmental Response,  Compensation,  and
Liability Act ("CERCLA"),  also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability,
without  regard to fault or the  legality of the  original  conduct,  on certain
classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous  substance"  into
the  environment.  These  persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal
site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged
for the disposal of hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are
or were  responsible  for releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be
subject to joint and several,  strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the
hazardous  substances  that  have been  released  into the  environment  and for
damages to natural resources,  and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners
and other third parties to file claims for personal  injury and property  damage
allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment.

     The Company generates wastes in the U.S.,  including hazardous wastes, that
are subject to the federal  Resource  Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and
comparable state statutes. The U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain

                                       9


<PAGE>


hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Furthermore,  certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
hazardous  wastes may in the  future be  designated  as  hazardous  wastes,  and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

     The Company currently owns or leases,  and has in the past owned or leased,
properties  in the U.S.  that for many years have been used for the  exploration
and production of oil and gas reserves.  Although the Company has used operating
and  disposal  practices  that  were  standard  in the  industry  at  the  time,
hydrocarbons  or other wastes may have been  disposed of or released on or under
the  properties  owned or leased by the Company or on or under  other  locations
where such hydrocarbons or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal.  In
addition,  some of these  properties  have been  operated by third parties whose
treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under
the Company's control.  These properties and the hydrocarbons or wastes disposed
thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and  analogous  state  laws.  Under such
laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate  previously  disposed
wastes or property  contamination or to perform remedial plugging  operations to
prevent future contamination.

     Federal  regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that
store or otherwise  handle oil,  such as the Company,  to prepare and  implement
spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans
relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution
Act of 1990 ("OPA")  amends  certain  provisions of the federal Water  Pollution
Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the Clean Water Act ("CWA"),  and
other  statutes as they pertain to the  prevention of and response to oil spills
into  navigable  waters of the U.S. The OPA  subjects  owners of  facilities  to
strict,  joint and several  liability for all  containment and cleanup costs and
certain other damages arising from a spill,  including,  but not limited to, the
costs of  responding  to a release of oil to surface  waters.  The CWA  provides
penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable  quantities and
imposes  substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.  OPA requires
responsible   parties  to   establish   and   maintain   evidence  of  financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

     Many  states in which the Company  operates  regulate  naturally  occurring
radioactive  materials ("NORM") and NORM wastes that are generated in connection
with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.  NORM wastes  typically
consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that become  concentrated in
pipes and production equipment. Certain state regulations require the testing of
pipes and  production  equipment  for the  presence of NORM,  the  licensing  of
NORM-contaminated  facilities  and the  careful  handling  and  disposal of NORM
wastes.  The Company  believes the  regulation of NORM has minimal effect on its
operations  because the Company  generates  only small  quantities of NORM on an
annual basis.

     The Company's  field  operations  in the U.S.  involve the use of gas-fired
compressors,  which are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state
laws governing the control and permitting of air emissions. The Company believes
that it is in  compliance  with  applicable  permitting  and control  technology
requirements of such laws and regulations;  however,  in the future,  additional
facilities  could  become  subject  to  additional  permitting,  monitoring  and
pollution control requirements as compressor facilities are expanded.

     The  Company's  operations  outside of the U.S.  are  generally  subject to
similar foreign governmental controls relating to protection of the environment.
The Company  believes that  compliance  with the existing  requirements of these
foreign  governmental  bodies  has  not had a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company's operations.

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS

     The nature of the business activities  conducted by the Company subjects it
to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material
risks relating to the Company's business  activities.  Other risks are described
in "Item 1.  Business --  Competition,  Markets and  Regulations"  and "Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk". These risks are not
the only risks facing the Company. The Company's business could also be impacted

                                       10


<PAGE>


by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that
it currently deems to be immaterial.  If any of these risks actually occur, they
could materially harm the Company's business,  financial condition or results of
operations and impair Pioneer's ability to implement  business plans or complete
development  projects  as  scheduled.  In that  case,  the  market  price of the
Company's common stock could decline.

     Commodity  prices.  The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on oil and gas prices.  These prices
are  affected  by the supply of and market  for oil and gas and  numerous  other
factors beyond the Company's control. Historically, oil and gas prices have been
very volatile.  A significant  downward  trend in commodity  prices would have a
material adverse effect on the Company's  revenues,  profitability and cash flow
and could,  under certain  circumstances,  result in a reduction in the carrying
value of the Company's oil and gas properties  and goodwill and the  recognition
of deferred  tax asset  valuation  allowances  or an  increase in the  Company's
deferred  tax  asset  valuation  allowance,   depending  on  the  Company's  tax
attributes in each country in which it has  activities.  The Company makes price
assumptions that are used for planning  purposes,  and a significant  portion of
the Company's  operating  expenses,  including rent, salaries and noncancellable
capital  commitments,  is largely  fixed in nature.  Accordingly,  if  commodity
prices are below expectations,  the Company's financial results are likely to be
adversely  and  disproportionately  affected  because  these  expenses  are  not
variable  in the  short  term and  cannot  be  quickly  reduced  to  respond  to
unanticipated decreases in commodity prices.

     Hedging  activities.  To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and gas
prices,  we have entered into,  and expect in the future to enter into,  hedging
arrangements  for a  portion  of our  oil  and  gas  production.  These  hedging
arrangements  may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain  circumstances,
including when:

   o    production is less than the hedged volumes,
   o    the counterparty  to the  hedging  contract  defaults on  their contract
        obligations, or
   o    the hedging  arrangements limit the benefit the  Company would otherwise
        receive from increases in oil and gas prices.

     Drilling activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the risk
that no commercially  productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered.  The
cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling
operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled as a result of a variety of
factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations,  equipment  failures or accidents,  adverse  weather  conditions and
shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's future drilling
activities may not be successful and, if  unsuccessful,  such failure could have
an adverse  effect on the Company's  future  results of operations and financial
condition.  While all drilling,  whether developmental or exploratory,  involves
these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure
to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  The Company expects that it will
continue to experience  exploration  and abandonment  expense in 2007,  although
only five percent of the Company's 2007 capital budget is devoted to higher-risk
exploratory  projects.  Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas
industry in recent periods have led to reduced  availability,  extended delivery
times and increased  costs of some drilling  equipment,  materials and supplies.
The Company  expects that these trends will continue in the  foreseeable  future
and, if so, they may impact the Company's  profitability,  cash flow and ability
to complete development projects as scheduled.

     Unproved  properties.  At December 31, 2006, the Company  carried  unproved
property costs of $210.3  million.  GAAP requires  periodic  evaluation of these
costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value.
These  evaluations  will be affected by the results of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of the  leases,  contracts  and permits  appurtenant  to such  projects.  If the
quantity of potential reserves  determined by such evaluations is not sufficient
to fully recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will  recognize
noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a
key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's  growth  following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable  basis.  The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately the costs to develop the reserves,  the recoverable volumes
of reserves,  rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from
the reserves and the assessment of possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of
these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately  generate cash flows
sufficient to provide a suitable  return on investment.  Even though the Company

                                       11


<PAGE>


performs a review of the  properties  it seeks to acquire  that it  believes  is
consistent with industry practices,  such reviews are often limited in scope. As
a result,  among other risks, the Company's initial estimates of reserves may be
subject to revision following  acquisition,  materially and adversely  impacting
the desired benefits of the acquisition.

     Divestitures.  The  Company  regularly  reviews its  property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  nonstrategic  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic  assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the  nonstrategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.  Sellers typically retain certain  liabilities
or indemnify  buyers for certain  matters.  The  magnitude of any such  retained
liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time
of the  tnrasction and  ultimately  may be material.

     Goodwill.  At December 31,  2006,  the Company  carried  goodwill of $309.9
million associated with its United States reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for
impairment  at least  annually,  requiring an estimate of the fair values of the
Company's assets and liabilities.  If the fair value of the Company's net assets
is not  sufficient  to fully  support the  goodwill  balance,  the Company  will
recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.

     Operation of gas  processing  plants.  As of December 31, 2006, the Company
owned  interests in seven gas processing  plants and seven treating  facilities.
The Company operates five of the plants and all seven treating facilities. There
are significant  risks  associated with the operation of gas processing  plants.
Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include  carcinogens.  Damage to
or  misoperation  of a gas  processing  plant or  facility  could  result  in an
explosion or the  discharge of toxic  gases,  which could result in  significant
damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. For example,  in May
2005,  the  Company's  Fain  gas  plant  was  shut  in for two  months  due to a
mechanical failure that resulted in a fire.

     Operating  hazards and  uninsured  losses.  The  Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering,  explosions, adverse weather
effects and pollution and other environmental  damage, any of which could result
in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or
destruction  of  wells,  production  facilities  or  other  property,   clean-up
responsibilities,  regulatory  investigations  and penalties  and  suspension of
operations. Increased hurricane activity in 2005 and 2004 resulted in production
curtailments  and physical  damage to the Company's  Gulf of Mexico  operations.
Although the Company currently  maintains  insurance  coverage that it considers
reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the
oil and gas  industry,  it is not fully  insured  against  certain  of the risks
described in this  paragraph,  either because such insurance is not available or
because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such
insurance.  Additionally,  the Company  relies to a large  extent on  facilities
owned and  operated  by  third-parties,  and damage to or  destruction  of those
third-party  facilities  could  affect the  ability of the  Company to  produce,
transport and sell its hydrocarbons.

     Environmental.  The  oil and  gas  business  is  subject  to  environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and
discharges of  substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial
liability due to pollution and other  environmental  damage. A variety of United
States federal,  state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern
the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business.  Noncompliance with these
laws and  regulations  may  subject  the  Company  to  administrative,  civil or
criminal  penalties,  remedial  cleanups,  and natural resource damages or other
liabilities,  and compliance  with these laws and  regulations  may increase the
cost of the Company's operations.  Such laws and regulations may also affect the
costs of  acquisitions.  See  "Item 1.  Business  --  Competition,  Markets  and
Regulations  --   Environmental   and  health  controls"  above  for  additional
discussion related to environmental risks.

     The Company does not believe that its  environmental  risks are  materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of production  or  processing  activities,  result in a
material  increase  in the  costs of  production,  development,  exploration  or
processing  operations or adversely affect the Company's  future  operations and
financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not
fully insurable.

     Impact of Weather  and  Climate.  Demand for oil and  natural gas are, to a
significant  degree,  dependent on weather and climate,  which impacts the price

                                       12


<PAGE>


the Company receives for its production.  In addition the Company's  production,
exploration and development  activities and equipment can be adversely  affected
by severe weather, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation
of activity or lost or damaged equipment, or unseasonal climate, which may delay
or otherwise disrupt drilling and production schedules. Not all such effects can
be predicted, eliminated or insured against.

     Debt restrictions and  availability.  The Company is a borrower under fixed
rate  senior  notes  and a  variable  rate  credit  facility.  The  terms of the
Company's  borrowings  under the senior  notes and the credit  facility  specify
scheduled  debt  repayments  and  require  the  Company to comply  with  certain
associated covenants and restrictions.  The Company's ability to comply with the
debt repayment  terms,  associated  covenants and  restrictions is dependent on,
among other  things,  factors  outside the  Company's  direct  control,  such as
commodity  prices  and  interest  rates.  See Note F of  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for information  regarding the Company's  outstanding  debt as of December
31, 2006 and the terms associated therewith.

     The Company's  ability to obtain  additional  financing is also impacted by
the Company's debt credit ratings and  competition for available debt financing.
See "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition and
Results of Operations" for a discussion of the Company's debt credit ratings.

     Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly  competitive.  The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company.  See "Item 1.  Business --  Competition,  Markets and  Regulations"
above for additional discussion regarding competition.

     Key  personnel.  Our  business  depends to a  significant  extent  upon the
continued  service and  performance  of a relatively  small number of key senior
managers and technical personnel. The loss of any existing key personnel, or the
inability to attract,  motivate and retain additional key personnel,  could harm
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     Government regulation.  The Company's business is regulated by a variety of
federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  and  regulations.  There  can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business -- Competition, Markets
and  Regulations"   above  for  additional   discussion   regarding   government
regulation.

     International  operations. At December 31, 2006, approximately five percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (three  percent in Canada and two percent in Africa).  The success
and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks
associated  with   international   activities,   including  economic  and  labor
conditions,    political   instability,   tax   laws   (including   host-country
import-export,  excise  and  income  taxes and  United  States  taxes on foreign
subsidiaries)  and  changes  in the value of the U.S.  dollar  versus  the local
currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. In some
cases, the market for the Company's  production in foreign  countries is limited
to some extent. For example, all of the Company's gas and condensate  production
from the South Coast Gas project is currently committed by contract to a single,
government-affiliated  gas-to-liquids  facility.  If  such  facility  ceased  to
purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event excusing  performance,  it might
be difficult to find an  alternative  market for the  production,  and if such a
market were secured,  the price  received by the Company might be less than that
provided  under  its  current  gas  sales  contract.  See  "Critical  Accounting
Estimates"  included  in  "Item  7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations",  "Qualitative  Disclosures  -
Foreign  currency,  operations  and price  risk" in "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for  information  regarding  other  risks  associated  with the  Company's
international operations.

     Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist
in estimating  quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues  therefrom.
The  estimates of proved  reserves and related  future net revenues set forth in
this Report are based on various  assumptions,  which may ultimately prove to be
inaccurate.

                                       13


<PAGE>



     Petroleum  engineering  is a subjective  process of estimating  underground
accumulations  of oil and gas  that  cannot  be  measured  in an  exact  manner.
Estimates  of  economically  recoverable  oil and gas reserves and of future net
cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and  assumptions,  including
the following:

     o  historical  production from the area compared with production from other
        producing areas,

     o  the quality and quantity of available data,

     o  the interpretation of that data,

     o  the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies,

     o  assumptions concerning future oil and gas sales prices and

     o  assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and
        excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.

     Because all reserve  estimates are to some degree  subjective,  each of the
following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves:

     o  the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered,

     o  the production and operating costs incurred,

     o  the amount and timing of future development expenditures and

     o  future oil and gas sales prices.

     Furthermore,  different reserve  engineers may make different  estimates of
reserves and cash flows based on the same available  data. The Company's  actual
production,  revenues and  expenditures  with respect to reserves will likely be
different from estimates and the differences may be material.

     As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from
proved  reserves  are based on prices and costs as of the date of the  estimate,
while actual future prices and costs may be materially  higher or lower.  Actual
future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:

     o  the amount and timing of actual production,

     o  increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil and gas and

     o  changes in governmental regulations or taxation.

     The  Company  reports all proved  reserves  held under  production  sharing
arrangements and concessions  utilizing the "economic  interest"  method,  which
excludes the host country's share of proved  reserves.  Estimated  quantities of
production sharing  arrangements  reported under the "economic  interest" method
are  subject  to  fluctuations  in the  price  of oil and  gas  and  recoverable
operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities
attributable to recovery of costs will change  inversely to changes in commodity
prices.

     Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis
for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and regulations of the
SEC.  It  requires  the use of oil  and gas  prices,  as well as  operating  and
development costs,  prevailing as of the date of computation.  Consequently,  it
may not reflect the prices ordinarily  received or that will be received for oil
and gas  production  because of seasonal  price  fluctuations  or other  varying
market conditions,  nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to
produce or develop the oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  estimates included
herein of future net revenues may be materially  different from the net revenues
that are ultimately received.  Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net

                                       14


<PAGE>


cash flows or  Standardized  Measure in this Report  should not be  construed as
accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

     Production  forecasts.  From time to time the Company provides forecasts of
expected quantities of future oil and gas production.  These forecasts are based
on a number of estimates,  including  expectations  of production  decline rates
from existing wells and the outcome of future  drilling  activity.  Should these
estimates  prove  inaccurate,  actual  production  could be adversely  impacted.
Downturns  in  commodity  prices  could  make  certain  drilling  activities  or
production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production.

     Stock  repurchases.  The Board of Directors  (the "Board")  approves  share
repurchase  programs  and sets limits on the price per share at which  Pioneer's
common stock can be repurchased.  The Company is not permitted to repurchase its
stock during  certain  periods  because of  scheduled  and  unscheduled  trading
blackouts.  Additionally,  business  conditions and  availability of capital may
dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled.  As a result, there can be no
assurance that  additional  repurchases  will be commenced and, if so, that they
will be completed.

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

   None.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

     The information included in this Report about the Company's proved reserves
as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, which were located in the United States,
Argentina,  Canada, South Africa and Tunisia, were based on evaluations prepared
by the Company's engineers and audited by Netherland,  Sewell & Associates, Inc.
("NSAI")  with respect to the  Company's  major  properties  and prepared by the
Company's  engineers  with respect to all other  properties.  The reserve audits
performed by NSAI in aggregate represented 89 percent, 82 percent and 88 percent
of the Company's  2006,  2005 and 2004 proved  reserves,  respectively;  and, 83
percent,  76  percent  and 84  percent  of the  Company's  2006,  2005  and 2004
associated  pre-tax present value of proved reserves  discounted at ten percent,
respectively.

     NSAI follows the general  principles set forth in the standards  pertaining
to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by
the Society of Petroleum  Engineers  ("SPE").  A reserve audit as defined by the
SPE is not the same as a  financial  audit.  The SPE's  definition  of a reserve
audit includes the following concepts:

     o   A reserve  audit  is an  examination  of  reserve  information  that is
         conducted for the purpose  of expressing an  opinion as to whether such
         reserve  information,  in the  aggregate,  is reasonable  and has  been
         presented in conformity  with generally accepted petroleum  engineering
         and evaluation principles.

     o   The estimation of proved  reserves is an  imprecise  science due to the
         many unknown  geologic  and reservoir factors that cannot  be estimated
         through  sampling techniques.  Since reserves  are only estimates, they
         cannot be  audited for  the purpose  of  verifying exactness.  Instead,
         reserve  information  is  audited  for  the  purpose  of  reviewing  in
         sufficient  detail the  policies,  procedures  and  methods  used  by a
         company  in estimating its  reserves so  that the reserve  auditors may
         express  an  opinion  as  to  whether,  in the  aggregate, the  reserve
         information  furnished  by  a  company  is  reasonable  and  has   been
         estimated   and   presented  in   conformity  with  generally  accepted
         petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.

     o   The  methods  and  procedures  used  by  a  company,  and  the  reserve
         information  furnished by a  company,  must be  reviewed in  sufficient
         detail to permit  the reserve auditor,  in its  professional  judgment,
         to  express  an  opinion  as  to  the  reasonableness  of  the  reserve
         information.  The auditing  procedures  require the  reserve auditor to
         prepare  its  own  estimates of  reserve  information  for the  audited
         properties.

     To further clarify,  in conjunction with the audits of the Company's proved
reserves and associated  pre-tax  present value  discounted at ten percent,  the
Company  provided to NSAI its external and internal  engineering  and geoscience
technical  data and analyses.  Following  NSAI's review of that data, it had the
option  of   honoring   the   Company's   interpretation,   or  making  its  own
interpretation.   No  data  was  withheld  from  NSAI.  NSAI  accepted   without

                                       15


<PAGE>


independent  verification  the  accuracy  and  completeness  of  the  historical
information  and  data  furnished  by the  Company  with  respect  to  ownership
interest;  oil and gas  production;  well test data;  oil,  NGL and gas  prices;
operating and  development  costs;  and any  agreements  relating to current and
future operations of the properties and sales of production.  However, if in the
course of its  evaluation  something  came to its  attention  that  brought into
question the validity or sufficiency of any such  information or data,  NSAI did
not rely on such  information or data until it had  satisfactorily  resolved its
questions  relating  thereto or had  independently  verified such information or
data.

     In the course of its  evaluations,  NSAI  prepared,  for all of the audited
properties,  its own  estimates  of the  Company's  proved  reserves and pre-tax
present value of such reserves  discounted at ten percent.  NSAI's  estimates of
those proved reserves and pre-tax  present value of such reserves  discounted at
ten percent did not differ from the Company's estimates by more than ten percent
in the aggregate.  However,  when compared on a  field-by-field  or area-by-area
basis, some of the Company's  estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some
were less than the estimates of NSAI.  When such  differences did not exceed ten
percent in the  aggregate and NSAI was  satisfied  that the proved  reserves and
pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent were reasonable
and that its audit objectives had been met, NSAI issued a completed  unqualified
audit opinion.  Remaining  differences were not resolved due to the limited cost
benefit of continuing  such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the  conclusion
of the audit process,  it was NSAI's opinion, as set forth in its audit letters,
that  Pioneer's  estimates  of the  Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves  and
associated  pre-tax  future net revenues  discounted  at ten percent are, in the
aggregate,  reasonable  and have been  prepared  in  accordance  with  generally
accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.

     The Company did not provide  estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves
during 2006,  2005 or 2004 to any federal  authority  or agency,  other than the
SEC.  The  Company's  reserve  estimates do not include any probable or possible
reserves.  Also, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Estimates"
in "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations" for
additional discussions regarding proved reserves and their related cash flows.

Proved Reserves

     The Company's  proved  reserves  totaled  904.9 MMBOE,  986.7 MMBOE and 1.0
billion BOE at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing $4.7
billion, $7.3 billion and $6.6 billion,  respectively,  of Standardized Measure.
The  Company's  proved  reserves  include  field fuel,  which is gas consumed to
operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered
to a sales point.  The following table shows the changes in the Company's proved
reserve  volumes by geographic  area during the year ended December 31, 2006 (in
MBOE):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Purchases of     Sales of      Revisions of
                                        Extensions and    Minerals-in     Minerals-in-     Previous
                          Production      Discoveries        Place           Place         Estimates
                          ----------    --------------    -----------     ------------   ------------
<S>                         <C>              <C>              <C>            <C>            <C>
      United States.....    (36,499)         34,733           50,543         (29,395)       (9,244)
      Argentina.........     (3,743)            898               --         (97,920)         (646)
      Canada............     (2,924)         11,351               --              --        (1,485)
      South Africa......     (1,506)             --               --              --         1,541
      Tunisia...........       (943)          1,870               --              --         1,588
                            -------         -------          -------        ---------       --------
      Total.............    (45,615)         48,852           50,543        (127,315)       (8,246)
                            =======         =======          =======        =========       ========
</TABLE>

     Production.  Production  volumes include 2,894 MBOE of field fuel and 6,811
MBOE  of  production   associated   with  divested  assets  being  presented  as
discontinued operations.

     Extensions and  discoveries.  Extensions and  discoveries are primarily the
result of  extension  drilling  in the Raton  field and  Spraberry  field in the
United  States  and  the  Horseshoe   Canyon  field  in  Canada  and  lower-risk
exploratory  drilling in the  Company's  South Texas  Edwards Trend and Tunisian
resource plays.

                                       16


<PAGE>


     Purchases  of   minerals-in-place.   Purchases  of  minerals-in-place   are
primarily  attributable to bolt-on  acquisitions and joint venture activities in
the Company's Spraberry field and Edwards Trend area.

     Sales of  minerals-in-place.  Sales of  minerals-in-place  are  principally
related  to the  Company's  divestiture  of its  deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico  and
Argentine  assets  during 2006.  See Note N of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

     Revisions  of  previous  estimates.  Revisions  of previous  estimates  are
comprised of 14 MMBOE of negative price revisions  offset by 6 MMBOE of positive
technical  revisions.  The Company's  proved  reserves at December 31, 2006 were
determined  using year-end NYMEX  equivalent  prices of $60.82 per barrel of oil
and $5.64 per Mcf of gas,  compared  to $61.04  per barrel of oil and $10.08 per
Mcf of gas at  December  31,  2005.  The lower gas prices at  December  31, 2006
decreased  the economic  life on certain gas  properties,  the majority of which
were in the Raton gas field.

     On a BOE basis,  60 percent  of the  Company's  total  proved  reserves  at
December 31, 2006 were proved developed  reserves.  Based on reserve information
as of December 31, 2006, and using the Company's production  information for the
year then ended,  excluding production  associated with divested assets included
in discontinued operations, the reserve-to-production  ratio associated with the
Company's  proved  reserves  was in  excess  of 20  years  on a BOE  basis.  The
following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and
average  daily  sales  volumes by  geographic  area as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    2006 Average Daily
                          Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2006                   Sales Volumes (b)
                   ----------------------------------------------------    ---------------------------------
                    Oil                                                     Oil
                  & NGLs         Gas                      Standardized     & NGLS         Gas
                  (MBbls)     (MMcf) (a)       MBOE          Measure       (Bbls)        (Mcf)        BOE
                  -------     ----------     --------     ------------     -------     --------     --------
                                                         (in thousands)
<S>               <C>         <C>            <C>          <C>               <C>         <C>           <C>
United States..   406,725     2,685,961      854,385      $  4,189,171      36,204      284,732       83,659
Canada.........     2,199       173,509       31,117           269,289         774       43,420        8,011
South Africa...     3,070        60,511       13,156           143,722       4,127           --        4,127
Tunisia........     4,977         7,846        6,284            86,807       2,386        1,195        2,585
                  -------     ---------      -------      ------------      ------      -------       ------
Total..........   416,971     2,927,827      904,942      $  4,688,989      43,491      329,347       98,382
                  =======     =========      =======      ============      ======      =======       ======
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The gas  reserves  contain  316,528  MMcf of gas that will be produced  and
     utilized as field fuel.

(b)  The 2006 average daily sales volumes are from continuing operations and (i)
     do not include the field fuel produced,  which averaged 47,568 Mcf per day,
     and (ii) were calculated  using a 365-day year and without making pro forma
     adjustments for any  acquisitions,  divestitures or drilling  activity that
     occurred during the year.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       17


<PAGE>



     The  following  table  represents  the  estimated  timing and cash flows of
developing  the Company's  proved  undeveloped  reserves as of December 31, 2006
(dollars in thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                Estimated
                                  Future           Future            Future          Future
                                Production          Cash           Production      Development      Future Net
Year Ended December 31, (a)       (MBOE)           Inflows           Costs            Costs         Cash Flows
- ---------------------------     ----------       -----------      -----------      -----------     ------------

<S>                                  <C>         <C>              <C>              <C>             <C>
2007.....................            4,481       $   175,426      $    24,487      $   589,438     $  (438,499)
2008.....................           10,127           389,933           61,873          691,380        (363,320)
2009.....................           15,803           611,695          100,032          572,748         (61,085)
2010.....................           19,240           741,831          128,291          475,130         138,410
Thereafter...............          312,710        12,893,943        3,465,588        1,331,388       8,096,967
                                  --------       -----------      -----------      -----------     ------------
                                   362,361       $14,812,828      $ 3,780,271      $ 3,660,084     $ 7,372,473
                                  ========       ===========      ===========      ===========     ============
<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Beginning in 2008 and  thereafter,  the production and cash flows represent
     the drilling results from the respective year plus the incremental  effects
     of proved undeveloped drilling since 2007.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Description of Properties

United States

     Approximately  89 percent of the Company's  proved reserves at December 31,
2006 are located in the Spraberry  field in the Permian Basin area,  the Hugoton
and West Panhandle fields in the  Mid-Continent  area and the Raton field in the
Rocky Mountains area. These fields generate substantial  operating cash flow and
the  Spraberry  and Raton  fields have a large  portfolio  of low-risk  drilling
opportunities.  The cash flows  generated from these fields provide  funding for
the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and
internationally.

     The following tables summarize the Company's United States  development and
exploration/extension drilling activities during 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Development Drilling
                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               Beginning Wells     Wells     Successful   Unsuccessful    Divested    Ending Wells
                                 In Progress       Spud         Wells        Wells          Wells      In Progress
                               ---------------    -------    ---------    ------------    --------    ------------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>         <C>             <C>                         <C>
Permian Basin..............           27            313         327             3              --           10
Mid-Continent..............           --             43          41             1              --            1
Rocky Mountains............           --            289         281             3              --            5
Onshore Gulf Coast.........`           2             14          13             1              --            2
                                    ----           ----        ----          ----            ----         ----
  Total United States......           29            659         662             8              --           18
                                    ====           ====        ====          ====            ====         ====
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Exploration/Extension Drilling
                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               Beginning Wells     Wells     Successful   Unsuccessful    Divested    Ending Wells
                                 In Progress       Spud         Wells        Wells          Wells      In Progress
                               ---------------    -------    ---------    ------------    --------    ------------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>         <C>             <C>                         <C>
Permian Basin..............           --             16          14            1               --            1
Rocky Mountains............            1             32          17           --               --           16
Gulf of Mexico:
  Continuing operations....           --              2           1            1               --           --
  Discontinued operations..            3              -           3           --               --           --
Onshore Gulf Coast.........           --             21          14            3               --            4
Alaska.....................            3              3           3            3               --           --
                                    ----           ----        ----          ---             ----         ----
  Total United States......            7             74          52            8               --           21
                                    ====           ====        ====          ====            ====         ====
</TABLE>

                                       18



<PAGE>


     The  following  tables  summarize by geographic  area the Company's  United
States costs incurred during 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     Property
                                 Acquisition Costs                                      Asset
                               ---------------------    Exploration    Development    Retirement
                                Proved     Unproved        Costs          Costs       Obligations       Total
                               --------    ---------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                              (in thousands)

<S>                            <C>         <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
  Permian Basin...........     $ 51,421    $  30,703    $    12,411    $ 285,980      $     1,884    $   382,399
  Mid-Continent...........          133           --            156       35,759            2,650         38,698
  Rocky Mountains.........        1,240       17,495         64,924      170,863            9,561        264,083
  Gulf of Mexico:
   Continuing operations..           --            8         94,167        5,045            6,028        105,248
   Discontinued operations           --            2          3,808        3,167               --          6,977
  Onshore Gulf Coast......       19,743       33,157         82,775       61,705            1,396        198,776
  Alaska..................        4,800       27,956         34,684      119,309 (a)        1,350        188,099
                               --------    ---------    -----------    ---------      -----------    -----------
   Total United States....     $ 77,337    $ 109,321    $   292,925    $ 681,828      $    22,869    $ 1,184,280
                               ========    =========    ===========    =========      ===========    ===========
<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Includes  $6.8  million of  capitalized  interest  related to the  Oooguruk
     project.
</FN>
</TABLE>

  Permian Basin

     Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses
eight counties in West Texas. The field is  approximately  150 miles long and 75
miles wide at its widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas  Intermediate
Sweet,  and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of
1,400 Btu. The oil and gas are produced  primarily  from three  formations,  the
upper and lower  Spraberry  and the Dean,  at depths  ranging from 6,700 feet to
9,200 feet. In addition,  the Company has started completing the majority of its
wells in the Wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet
with  successful  results.  The Company  believes  the  Spraberry  field  offers
excellent  opportunities  to  enhance  oil and  gas  production  because  of the
numerous  undeveloped  drilling  locations,  many of which are  reflected in the
Company's  proved  undeveloped  reserves,  and the ability to contain  operating
expenses through economies of scale.

     During  2006,  the Company (a) drilled 299 wells,  an increase of 118 wells
over 2005, (b) acquired  approximately  200,000 gross acres,  bringing its total
acreage position to approximately  684,000 gross acres (593,000 net acres),  (c)
completed  several  bolt-on  property  acquisitions  and  joint  ventures,   (d)
successfully  drilled a majority of the wells to the Wolfcamp  formation and (e)
acquired a well servicing operation as a measure to control costs.

  Mid-Continent

     Hugoton field.  The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest
producing gas fields in the continental  United States. The gas is produced from
the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging  from 2,700 feet to
3,000 feet. The Company's gas in the Hugoton field has an average energy content
of 1,025 Btu. The  Company's  Hugoton  properties  are located on  approximately
285,000  gross acres  (247,000  net acres),  covering  approximately  400 square
miles.  The Company has working  interests in  approximately  1,200 wells in the
Hugoton field,  about 1,000 of which it operates,  and partial royalty interests
in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns  substantially all of the gathering
and  processing  facilities,  primarily  the  Satanta  plant,  that  service its
production from the Hugoton field.  Such ownership allows the Company to control
the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.

     The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately
69 MMcf  of wet  gas  per day  (i.e.,  gas  production  at the  wellhead  before
processing  or field  fuel use and before  reduction  for  royalties),  although
actual  production in the Hugoton  field is limited by  allowables  set by state
regulators.  The  Company  estimates  that it and other major  producers  in the
Hugoton field  produced near allowable  capacity  during the year ended December
31, 2006.

                                       19


<PAGE>



     During 2006, the Company reached a settlement agreement on the class action
Alford royalty  lawsuit which  primarily  revolved around costs being charged to
the royalty  owners.  The  settlement  agreement  provides for adjustment to the
manner in which royalty payments will be calculated and accordingly, the Company
expects a small increase in its production  costs  beginning in 2007. See Note I
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data".

     West  Panhandle  field.  The West  Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle region of Texas. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to
the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,  Granite Wash and fractured Granite  formations at
depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field
has an average  energy  content of 1,300 Btu and is produced from  approximately
600 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres (240,000 net acres) covering over 375
square  miles.  The  Company  controls  100  percent  of the  wells,  production
equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.

     The Company is pursuing  regulatory  relief in the West Panhandle  field to
allow for future additional drilling locations.

  Rocky Mountains

     Raton  field.  The Raton  Basin  properties  are  located in the  southeast
portion of  Colorado.  Exploration  for CBM in the Raton Basin began in the late
1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies  drilling and
testing  more than 100 wells  during this  period.  The absence of a pipeline to
transport  gas from the Raton  Basin  prevented  full  scale  development  until
January 1995, when Colorado Interstate Gas Company completed the construction of
the Picketwire lateral pipeline system. The Company's gas in the Raton Basin has
an average  energy  content of 1,000 Btu. Since the completion of the Picketwire
lateral,  production  has  continued  to grow,  resulting  in  expansion  of the
system's  capacity by its  operator,  the most recent  expansion of which was in
October 2005.  The Company owns  approximately  317,000 gross acres (281,000 net
acres) in the center of the Raton Basin with current  production from coal seams
of the Vermejo and Raton  formations.  The Company owns the well  servicing  and
frac  equipment  that it utilizes in the Raton field to control costs and insure
availability.

     During  2006,  the  Company  (a)  drilled  288  wells,  (b) added  wellhead
compression  and (c) continued  efforts to optimize  gathering  and  compression
facilities.

     Piceance/Uinta Basins. The Piceance Basin is located in the central portion
of western  Colorado,  and the Uinta Basin is located in the central  portion of
eastern  Utah.  The Company  owns  approximately  244,000  gross acres  covering
producing and prospective  regions of the Piceance and Uinta Basins.  Currently,
production  is  established  from  various  tight  sandstone,   coal  and  shale
formations.  The  Company's  significant  projects  in the area are CBM plays at
Columbine Springs and Castlegate and a deep gas play at Main Canyon.

     At Columbine Springs, in northwest Colorado,  the Company is completing its
extension pilot program,  with all wells expected to be on production by the end
of the first  quarter of 2007.  If the pilot  project is successful in achieving
commercial  quantities of gas production,  full field development could begin in
2008.

     In  northeast  Utah,  the  Company  continues  to monitor  its CBM pilot at
Castlegate and is testing the wells recently drilled in the Main Canyon area. An
assessment of whether  either  project will be commercial is not expected  until
the second half of 2007.

     Sand Wash Basin. The Sand Wash Basin is the site of a potential CBM project
located north of the Company's Piceance Basin properties. The Company holds a 50
percent operated  interest in 114,000 gross acres in the Lay Creek field. At Lay
Creek,  the  Company  has  drilled  15 wells in five  separate  pilot  areas and
completed  workovers  and  recompletions  on  14  wells  drilled  by a  previous
operator.  The Company has completed the water  treatment  facility and plans to
initiate  production  in the first  quarter of 2007.  If the pilot  projects are
successful  in achieving  commercial  quantities of gas  production,  full field
development could begin in 2008.

                                       20



<PAGE>


  Gulf of Mexico

     Gulf of  Mexico  area.  During  March  2006,  the  Company  sold all of its
interests in certain oil and gas  properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico for
net proceeds of $1.2 billion, resulting in a gain of $726.2 million. See Notes N
and V of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico divestiture.

     During 2005, the Company  announced a discovery on its Clipper  prospect in
the Green  Canyon  Blocks 299 and 300 in the  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico.  During
2006, the Company drilled two successful Clipper appraisal wells, but drilled an
unsuccessful  exploratory well at the Flying Cloud prospect, a prospect near the
Clipper  discovery.  The Company expects to develop the Clipper discovery and is
currently evaluating sub-sea tie-back options to third-party production handling
facilities in the area. Pioneer operates the Clipper discovery with a 55 percent
working interest.

     As a result of Hurricane Rita, the Company's East Cameron facility, located
on the Gulf of Mexico  shelf,  was  destroyed  and the Company  does not plan to
rebuild the  facility  based on the  economics  of the field.  During the fourth
quarter of 2006,  the  Company's  application  to "reef  in-place" a substantial
portion  of the East  Cameron  debris  was  denied.  As a  result,  the  Company
currently  estimates that it will cost approximately $119 million to reclaim and
abandon the East Cameron facility.  The estimate to reclaim and abandon the East
Cameron  facility  is based upon an  analysis  and fee  proposal  prepared  by a
third-party engineering firm for the majority of the work and an estimate by the
Company for the remainder. During 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded additional
abandonment obligation charges of $75.0 million and $39.8 million, respectively,
which  amounts  are  included in  hurricane  activity,  net in the  accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operations to reclaim and abandon the
East Cameron facilities began in January 2007 and the Company expects to incur a
substantial portion of the costs in 2007. The Company expects that a substantial
portion of the total  estimated cost to reclaim and abandon the facility will be
covered  by  insurance,  including  100  percent of the  debris  removal  costs.
Consequently,  the  Company  has  recorded a $43.0  million  insurance  recovery
receivable corresponding to the estimated debris removal costs.

     During  2006,  the  Company  announced  its intent to divest of its Gulf of
Mexico shelf properties; however, the Company has decided not to divest of these
properties  after  its sales  efforts  in 2006 did not  result in an  acceptable
offer.

    Onshore Gulf Coast

     South Texas. The Company has  historically  focused its drilling efforts in
South Texas on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Trend in South Texas. The Edwards
Trend is a tight gas limestone  reservoir  characterized  by narrow bands of dry
gas fields extending over 250 miles. The Company has acquired over 270,000 gross
acres in the Edwards  Trend.  In addition to the operations in the Pawnee field,
the Company has  operations  in the SW Kenedy and  Washburn  fields.  Production
depths in the Edwards Trend range from 9,500 feet to 14,000 feet.

     During  2006,  the  Company  drilled 16  exploration  and  appraisal  wells
targeting  new field  discoveries  in the  Edwards  Trend  area with 88  percent
success,  exceeding  expectations and increasing proved gas reserves.  Eight new
wells have been added to  production  and six wells are  awaiting  pipelines  or
testing.

     Having 3-D seismic data has significantly enhanced field development in the
Pawnee  field,  allowing  the Company to more  accurately  locate and orient the
horizontal wells for optimal results. To expand its 3-D data coverage to include
new  discoveries  and  additional  prospects,  the  Company  plans to shoot  and
interpret  approximately  850 square  miles of new data.  Multiple  surveys  are
planned for 2007,  with three  already  underway.  While the new seismic work is
being completed,  the Company will direct most of its investments in the Edwards
Trend to lower-risk,  lower-cost  development  drilling on existing  discoveries
where 3-D data is currently available.

     To  revitalize  existing  horizontal  wells in the area,  the  Company  has
initiated  a  pilot  using  more  extensive  fracture  stimulation   techniques.
Horizontal  wells in the field are completed  open-hole  and have  traditionally
been lightly stimulated with acid. Recently,  the Company began performing a new
fracture  stimulation  procedure  on  additional  wells.  The  Company  plans to

                                       21


<PAGE>


fracture stimulate additional horizontal wells, including newer producing wells,
during 2007 to further evaluate the potential for a more extensive program.  The
Company also recently  drilled a new horizontal well within a developed  section
of the Pawnee  field with very  successful  results.  The  Company is  currently
evaluating  additional infill drilling  locations given this success.  Plans are
also in  progress  to expand  the gas  gathering  infrastructure  in the area to
accommodate  expected  production  growth  and  to  maximize  efficiency  at the
Company's Pawnee Plant.

     Northern  Louisiana and Mississippi.  The Company has acquired  significant
acreage in Northern Louisiana and Mississippi.  The Company has built an acreage
position  covering  multiple plays in the  Mississippi  Salt Basin and now holds
leases and option  interests  covering over 300,000 acres.  Over the next two to
three  years,  the  Company  expects  to test a number of  opportunities  and to
continue technical work that is currently underway.

     One of the lower-risk  opportunities in the portfolio is the  redevelopment
of the  Bolton  Gas Field in Hinds  County,  Mississippi.  The first well of the
project was drilled to 17,600 feet and penetrated  multiple  gas-bearing  Cotton
Valley sands. Currently,  the well is being logged and completion design work is
progressing.  The location  for the next well has been built and  drilling  will
commence  immediately  after  operations  are completed on the current well. The
Company  plans to drill at least one more well in 2007 during this initial phase
of the  project.  Facility  construction  is underway  and first  production  is
anticipated in mid-2007.

     The  Company  has also  concluded  drilling  operations  on its first  well
testing the  Norphlet  formation in  Mississippi.  The well was drilled in Wayne
County and, after extensive evaluation,  has been plugged and abandoned.  Future
drilling plans will be determined after a technical analysis of the initial well
is completed.

  Alaska

     Oooguruk.  During 2002, the Company  acquired a 70 percent working interest
and  operatorship  in ten state leases on Alaska's  North Slope.  In  connection
therewith,  the Company  drilled three  exploratory  wells during 2003 to test a
possible  extension of the  productive  sands in the Kuparuk  River field in the
shallow  waters  offshore  the North Slope of Alaska.  Although all three of the
wells  found the sands  filled  with  oil,  they were too thin to be  considered
commercial on a stand-alone  basis.  However,  the wells also encountered  thick
sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a rate
of approximately  1,300 Bbls per day. In January 2004, the Company farmed-into a
large  acreage  block to the  southwest  of the  Company's  discovery.  In 2004,
Pioneer completed an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the resource
potential  within  this  area.  As a  result  of this  evaluation,  the  Company
performed front-end engineering and permitting activities during 2005 to further
define the scope of the project.  In early 2006,  the Company  announced that it
had approved the development of the Oooguruk field in the project area.

     The Company has  constructed and armored the gravel drilling and production
island site and  installation  of a sub-sea  flowline and facilities are planned
for 2007 to carry produced liquids to existing onshore processing  facilities at
the Kuparuk River Unit. The Company continues to procure equipment and services,
fabricate  equipment  and  modify  a  drilling  rig for  installation  in  2007.
Development  drilling  of  approximately  40 wells on the project is expected to
begin in late 2007 and be completed  in 2009.  First  production  is expected in
2008.

     Cosmopolitan.  During  2005,  Pioneer  announced  that it  entered  into an
agreement  on the  Cosmopolitan  Unit in the Cook Inlet.  Under this  agreement,
Pioneer earned a ten percent  working  interest in the unit from  ConocoPhillips
through  a  disproportionate  spending  arrangement  for a 3-D  seismic  program
undertaken  during  the  fourth  quarter  of 2005.  In June  2006,  the  Company
exercised an option to acquire an additional 40 percent working  interest in the
Cosmopolitan  Unit,  bringing  its working  interest to 50 percent.  Pioneer was
elected operator of the  Cosmopolitan  Unit and plans to drill an appraisal well
in 2007.

     Onshore North Slope area. The Company holds a large acreage position in the
onshore North Slope area of Alaska,  primarily in the National Petroleum Reserve
- - Alaska ("NPRA").  During the 2006-2007  drilling season,  the Company plans to
participate in the drilling of two non-operated exploratory wells in the NPRA.

                                       22



<PAGE>


International

     The  Company's  international  operations  are located in Canada,  offshore
South Africa and in southern Tunisia.  Additionally, the Company has exploration
activities West Africa (Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria). As of December 31, 2006,
approximately  three  percent and two percent of the Company's  proved  reserves
were located in Canada and Africa, respectively.

     The following tables summarize the Company's international  development and
exploration/extension drilling activities during 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Development Drilling
                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               Beginning Wells     Wells     Successful   Unsuccessful    Divested    Ending Wells
                                 In Progress       Spud         Wells        Wells          Wells      In Progress
                               ---------------    -------    ---------    ------------    --------    ------------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>         <C>             <C>                         <C>
Argentina - discontinued
  operations.............              2             21            14            1              8            --
Canada...................              3              2             2           --             --             3
South Africa.............             --              4             2           --             --             2
                                    ----           ----          ----         ----           ----          ----
  Total International....              5             27            18            1              8             5
                                    ====           ====          ====         ====           ====          ====
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Exploration/Extension Drilling
                               -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               Beginning Wells     Wells     Successful   Unsuccessful    Divested    Ending Wells
                                 In Progress       Spud         Wells        Wells          Wells      In Progress
                               ---------------    -------    ---------    ------------    --------    ------------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>         <C>             <C>                         <C>
Argentina - discontinued
  operations.............              4              6             4            2              4            --
Canada...................            109            249           326           16             --            16
South Africa.............              1             --            --            1             --            --
Tunisia..................              2              7             2            2             --             5
West Africa - Nigeria....             --              1            --            1             --            --
                                    ----           ----          ----         ----           ----          ----
  Total International....            116            263           332           22              4            21
                                    ====           ====          ====         ====           ====          ====
</TABLE>

     The  following   tables   summarize  by   geographic   area  the  Company's
international costs incurred during 2006:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     Property
                                 Acquisition Costs                                      Asset
                               ---------------------    Exploration    Development    Retirement
                                Proved     Unproved        Costs          Costs       Obligations       Total
                               --------    ---------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                              (in thousands)

<S>                            <C>         <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Argentina--discontinued
   operations............      $     --    $       2    $    10,223    $  25,542      $        --    $     35,767
Canada...................            --       19,932        103,245       97,188            8,299         228,664
South Africa.............            --           --            288      117,511 (a)       13,964         131,763
Tunisia..................            --        5,000         40,813           --              336          46,149
Other....................            --           --         11,358           --               --          11,358
West Africa:
  Equatorial Guinea......            --           --        (1,688)           --               --         (1,688)
  Nigeria................            --       10,584         26,502           --               --          37,086
                               --------    ---------    -----------    ---------      -----------    ------------
   Total International...      $     --    $  35,518    $   190,741    $ 240,241      $    22,599    $    489,099
                               ========    =========    ===========    =========      ===========    ============
<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Includes $5.3 million of  capitalized  interest  related to the South Coast
     Gas project.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Argentina. During April 2006, the Company sold its Argentine assets for net
proceeds of $669.6  million,  resulting in a gain of $10.9 million.  See Notes N
and V of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the Argentine
divestiture.

                                       23


<PAGE>



     Canada. The Company's  Canadian producing  properties are located primarily
in Alberta and  British  Columbia,  Canada.  The  Company  continues  to exploit
lower-risk  opportunities identified in the Chinchaga field in northeast British
Columbia and Alberta.  Production from the Chinchaga field is relatively dry gas
from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet.

     The Company has commenced  production and continued  significant  drilling,
pipeline and facility  activities in south-central  Alberta targeting  Horseshoe
Canyon CBM in the greater  Drumheller area. The greater Drumheller area produces
gas,  condensate and minor oil from Cretaceous to Devonian  formations at depths
ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet.

     Also,  in southern  Alberta  the  Company has  initiated a CBM pilot in the
Mannville  coals.  Currently,  six  wells  have  been  drilled  and  are  in the
dewatering  stages to see if commercial  quantities of gas can be achieved.  The
Company is also evaluating  other completion  techniques that could  potentially
accelerate the dewatering and increase production rates.

     South  Africa.  The  Company  has  agreements  to  explore  for oil and gas
offshore  South Africa  covering over 3.6 million acres along the southern coast
in water  depths  generally  less  than 650 feet.  The  Sable  oil  field  began
producing  in August  2003 and the  majority  of the gas from the field has been
reinjected. The Company has a 40 percent working interest in the Sable field.

     In  2005,  the  Company   sanctioned  the  non-operated   South  Coast  Gas
development  project,  which includes the sub-sea tie-back of gas from the Sable
field and six additional gas accumulations to an existing production facility on
the F-A platform for  transportation  via existing pipelines to a gas-to liquids
plant.  Pioneer has a 45 percent  working  interest in the  project.  As part of
sanctioning  of the South  Coast Gas  project,  the  Company  signed a  six-year
contract  for the  sale of all of its gas and  condensate  production  from  the
project.  The contract  contains an obligation  for the purchaser to take or pay
for  a  total  of  91.4  BCF  and  associated   condensate  if  the  anticipated
deliverability  estimates are achieved. The price for both gas and condensate is
indexed to Brent oil sales.  During 2006, the Company drilled four wells. During
the first half of 2007,  the Company plans to drill two  additional  development
wells and  complete  the  sub-sea  well  tie-backs  to the  existing  production
facilities on the F-A platform.  First production is expected to commence in the
second half of 2007.

     Tunisia.  The Company's Tunisian  exploration permits can be separated into
three  categories:  (i) two  exploration  permits  (Jenein  Nord  and El  Hamra)
covering 1.6 million acres which the Company operates with a 100 percent working
interest,  (ii) the  Anadarko-operated  Anaguid exploration permit covering over
1.2 million  acres in which the Company has a 45 percent  working  interest  and
(iii) the  ENI-operated  Adam Concession and Borj El Khadra  exploration  permit
covering approximately 212,000 acres and 970,000 acres,  respectively,  in which
the Company has a 20 percent and 40 percent working interest,  respectively. All
exploration permits and concessions are onshore southern Tunisia.

     Production  from the Adam  Concession  began in May 2003.  During 2006, the
Company  continued  its  exploratory  and  appraisal   activities  on  the  Adam
Concession by drilling four wells, of which three were successful, and completed
a 3-D seismic survey. In 2006, the Company's interest in the Adam Concession was
reduced  from 24  percent  to 20  percent  in  accordance  with the terms of the
concession.  At  December  31,  2006,  the Company  had an  exploratory  well in
progress on each of the Adam  Concession  and Borj El Khadra  block.  Both wells
were  successful and are being added to production in the first quarter of 2007.
The Company  plans to drill an additional  two to three wells in the  concession
during 2007.

     In 2006, the Company  acquired the remaining  equity interest in the Jenein
Nord block that it did not  already  own and became the  operator  of the block.
During  2006,  the Company  completed  a 3-D  seismic  survey on the Jenein Nord
block.  The Company  drilled an  exploratory  well during 2006 that  encountered
multiple oil bearing zones and its commercial  development is being analyzed. At
December 31, 2006,  the Company had an additional  exploratory  well in progress
which was successful.  The Company plans to drill one to two additional wells in
the block during 2007. After the performance of the wells has been monitored for
several months, additional exploration and appraisal wells may also be drilled.

                                       24


<PAGE>


     Recently,  the Company entered into a farm-out agreement of its interest in
the El Hamra block  pursuant  to which it  retained an economic  interest in the
block.  In the Anaguid block,  the Company  continues to evaluate the results of
its past  drilling on the block and other  blocks in the area to  determine  the
go-forward plans on the block.

   West Africa

     The Company previously disclosed that it had retained a third party adviser
to assist it in  marketing  its West Africa  assets.  No agreement to sell these
assets has been reached to date, but the Company  continues to consider interest
from potential  purchasers.  As such, the capital  budget  includes  amounts for
expected  drilling  activities  in West  Africa  during  2007.  A first  well is
expected to spud during the second  quarter of 2007,  with  drilling on a second
well expected to commence in the second half of 2007, both in deepwater Nigeria.
The timing of the drilling of a third well is uncertain and therefore no amounts
have been budgeted for this prospect in 2007.

     Equatorial  Guinea. The Company owns a 50 percent working interest in Block
H located in the northern Rio Muni Basin of Equatorial  Guinea. The block covers
an area of over  240,000  acres and water depth  ranging  from 300 meters in the
southeastern  corner of the block to over 1,800  meters near the  western  block
boundary.  Currently,  as a result of new hydrocarbon law in Equatorial  Guinea,
the  government  in Equatorial  Guinea is claiming an  additional  participation
interest in the block.  The Company is  evaluating  the effect of the claim with
the operator of the block. The Company has identified  several  prospects on the
block that are being evaluated for future drilling. In light of the government's
claim, the timing of drilling a well is uncertain.

     Nigeria.  A  partially-owned   subsidiary  of  the  Company  joined  Oranto
Petroleum and Orandi  Petroleum in an existing  production  sharing  contract on
Block 320 in  deepwater  Nigeria  gaining  exploration  rights from the Nigerian
National  Petroleum  Corporation.  The  subsidiary,  which  holds  a 51  percent
interest  in Block 320,  is owned 59 percent by the Company and 41 percent by an
unaffiliated  third party.  The Company  completed a 3-D seismic survey covering
the block in 2006. The Company  currently expects to drill the first exploration
well on the block in the second half of 2007.

     The Company  owns a 25 percent  working  interest in Devon  Energy-operated
Block 256  offshore  Nigeria.  During  the first  quarter of 2006,  the  Company
participated  in the drilling of the Pina 1-X well on Block 256 in the deepwater
of Nigeria,  which was  unsuccessful.  The partners  plan to drill an additional
well on Block 256 in the  second  quarter  of 2007 to test a  different  type of
play.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

     The  following  tables  set forth  selected  oil and gas  information  from
continuing  operations  for the  Company  as of and for each of the years  ended
December  31,  2006,  2005 and  2004.  Because  of normal  production  declines,
increased or decreased  drilling  activities and the effects of  acquisitions or
divestitures,   the  historical   information  presented  below  should  not  be
interpreted as being indicative of future results.


                                       25




<PAGE>


     Production, price and cost data. The following tables set forth production,
price and cost data with respect to the Company's  properties for 2006, 2005 and
2004. These amounts represent the Company's  historical  results from continuing
operations   without  making  pro  forma   adjustments  for  any   acquisitions,
divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. The
production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the "Unaudited
Supplementary Information" section included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" due to field fuel volumes and production from  discontinued
operations being included in the reserve volume tables.

                         PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31, 2006
                                                      -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                      United                    South
                                                      States       Canada       Africa      Tunisia       Total
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                  <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
    Production information:
      Annual sales volumes:
        Oil (MBbls)...............................      6,467          113        1,506          871        8,957
        NGLs (MBbls)..............................      6,748          169           --           --        6,917
        Gas (MMcf)................................    103,928       15,848           --          436      120,212
        Total (MBOE)..............................     30,536        2,924        1,506          944       35,910
      Average daily sales volumes:
        Oil (Bbls)................................     17,716          311        4,127        2,386       24,540
        NGLs (Bbls)...............................     18,488          463           --           --       18,951
        Gas (Mcf).................................    284,732       43,420           --        1,195      329,347
        Total (BOE)...............................     83,659        8,011        4,127        2,585       98,382
    Average prices, including hedge results and
      amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)...............................   $  65.73     $  65.57     $  65.92     $  63.16     $  65.51
      NGLs (per Bbl)..............................   $  35.24     $  51.47     $     --     $     --     $  35.64
      Gas (per Mcf)...............................   $   6.15     $   6.75     $     --     $   5.97     $   6.23
      Revenue (per BOE)...........................   $  42.64     $  42.11     $  65.92     $  61.05     $  44.06
    Average prices, excluding hedge results and
      amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)...............................   $  62.92     $  65.57     $  65.74     $  63.16     $  63.45
      NGLs (per Bbl)..............................   $  35.24     $  51.47     $     --     $     --     $  35.64
      Gas (per Mcf)...............................   $   5.96     $   6.61     $     --     $   5.97     $   6.04
      Revenue (per BOE)...........................   $  41.37     $  41.35     $  65.74     $  61.05     $  42.91
    Average costs (per BOE):
      Production costs:
        Lease operating...........................   $   5.64     $   9.50     $  14.47     $   1.99     $   6.23
        Third-party transportation charges........        .82         6.03           --         1.42         1.22
        Taxes:
          Ad valorem..............................       1.45           --           --           --         1.24
          Production..............................       1.99           --           --           --         1.69
        Workover..................................        .72         1.29           --           --          .71
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
        Total.....................................   $  10.62     $  16.82     $  14.47     $   3.41     $  11.09
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
      Depletion expense...........................   $   9.07     $  15.39     $   6.28     $   4.25     $   9.34
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

                                       26



<PAGE>


                  PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31, 2005
                                                      -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                      United                    South
                                                      States       Canada       Africa      Tunisia       Total
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                  <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
    Production information:
      Annual sales volumes:
        Oil (MBbls)................................     8,008           77        2,405        1,269       11,759
        NGLs (MBbls)...............................     6,352          184           --           --        6,536
        Gas (MMcf).................................    98,927       13,296           --           --      112,223
        Total (MBOE)...............................    30,849        2,476        2,405        1,269       36,999
      Average daily sales volumes:
        Oil (Bbls).................................    21,942          210        6,588        3,477       32,217
        NGLs (Bbls)................................    17,403          503           --           --       17,906
        Gas (Mcf)..................................   271,033       36,427           --           --      307,460
        Total (BOE)................................    84,517        6,784        6,588        3,477      101,366
    Average prices, including hedge results and
      amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)................................  $  32.01     $  52.12     $  53.01     $  52.98     $  38.70
      NGLs (per Bbl)...............................  $  31.72     $  45.79     $     --     $     --     $  32.12
      Gas (per Mcf)................................  $   6.94     $   7.67     $     --     $     --     $   7.02
      Revenue (per BOE)............................  $  37.09     $  46.18     $  53.01     $  52.98     $  39.28
    Average prices, excluding hedge results and
      amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)................................  $  54.05     $  52.12     $  53.01     $  52.98     $  53.71
      NGLs (per Bbl)...............................  $  31.72     $  45.79     $     --     $     --     $  32.12
      Gas (per Mcf)................................  $   7.26     $   7.67     $     --     $     --     $   7.31
      Revenue (per BOE)............................  $  43.86     $  46.21     $  53.01     $  52.98     $  44.93
    Average costs (per BOE):
      Production costs:
        Lease operating............................  $   4.55     $   6.65     $  11.79     $   1.66     $   5.06
        Third-party transportation charges.........       .66         6.29           --         1.54         1.03
        Taxes:
          Ad valorem...............................      1.31            --          --           --         1.09
          Production...............................      1.94            --          --           --         1.61
        Workover...................................       .53         1.89           --           --          .57
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
        Total......................................  $   8.99     $  14.83     $  11.79     $   3.20     $   9.36
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
      Depletion expense............................  $   7.10     $  12.71     $  10.19     $   3.75     $   7.56
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

                                       27



<PAGE>


                  PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended December 31, 2004
                                                      -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                      United                    South
                                                      States       Canada       Africa      Tunisia       Total
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                  <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
    Production information:
      Annual sales volumes:
        Oil (MBbls)................................     8,001           26        3,429          845       12,301
        NGLs (MBbls)...............................     7,203          155           --           --        7,358
        Gas (MMcf).................................    76,629        9,372           --           --       86,001
        Total (MBOE)...............................    27,976        1,743        3,429          845       33,993
      Average daily sales volumes:
        Oil (Bbls).................................    21,863           72        9,368        2,308       33,611
        NGLs (Bbls)................................    19,678          425           --           --       20,103
        Gas (Mcf)..................................   209,371       25,606           --           --      234,977
        Total (BOE)................................    76,437        4,764        9,368        2,308       92,877
    Average prices, including hedge results and
     amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)................................  $  29.53     $  48.37     $  37.87     $  39.14     $  32.56
      NGLs (per Bbl)...............................  $  25.05     $  32.03     $     --     $     --     $  25.20
      Gas (per Mcf)................................  $   4.99     $   4.72     $     --     $     --     $   4.96
      Revenue (per BOE)............................  $  28.57     $  28.93     $  37.87     $  39.14     $  29.79
    Average prices, excluding hedge results and
      amortization of deferred VPP revenue:
      Oil (per Bbl)................................  $  39.22     $  48.37     $  38.60     $  39.14     $  39.06
      NGLs (per Bbl)...............................  $  25.05     $  32.03     $     --     $     --     $  25.20
      Gas (per Mcf)................................  $   5.46     $   5.37     $     --     $     --     $   5.45
      Revenue (per BOE)............................  $  32.62     $  32.45     $  38.60     $  39.14     $  33.37
    Average costs (per BOE):
      Production costs:
        Lease operating............................  $   3.32     $   4.90     $   8.31     $   2.04     $   3.87
        Third-party transportation charges.........       .18         5.02           --         1.54          .44
        Taxes:
          Ad valorem...............................       .99           --           --           --          .82
          Production...............................      1.33           --           --           --         1.10
        Workover...................................       .42          .87           --           --          .39
                                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
        Total......................................  $   6.24     $  10.79     $   8.31     $   3.58     $   6.62
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
      Depletion expense............................  $   5.34     $  12.93     $  12.86     $   4.43     $   6.46
                                                     ========     ========     ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>


                                       28



<PAGE>


     Productive  wells.  The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004:

                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          Gross Productive Wells                  Net Productive Wells
                                    ----------------------------------     ----------------------------------
                                       Oil          Gas         Total         Oil          Gas         Total
                                    --------     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
As of December 31, 2006:
  United States..................      4,605        4,180        8,785        3,821        3,906        7,727
  Argentina......................         --           --           --           --           --           --
  Canada.........................         48          832          880           31          699          730
  South Africa...................          4            2            6            2            1            3
  Tunisia........................         10           --           10            2           --            2
                                     -------      -------      -------      -------      -------      -------
  Total..........................      4,667        5,014        9,681        3,856        4,606        8,462
                                     =======      =======      =======      =======      =======      =======
As of December 31, 2005:
  United States..................      4,300        3,955        8,255        3,531        3,669        7,200
  Argentina......................        821          261        1,082          684          202          886
  Canada.........................         65          675          740           30          511          541
  South Africa...................          8           --            8            2           --            2
  Tunisia........................          4           --            4            2           --            2
                                     -------      -------      -------      -------      -------      -------
  Total..........................      5,198        4,891       10,089        4,249        4,382        8,631
                                     =======      =======      =======      =======      =======      =======
As of December 31, 2004:
  United States..................      3,999        3,990        7,989        3,288        3,563        6,851
  Argentina......................        744          226          970          607          168          775
  Canada.........................         38          489          527           25          358          383
  South Africa...................          5           --            5            2           --            2
  Tunisia........................          4           --            4            1           --            1
                                     -------      -------      -------      -------      -------      -------
  Total..........................      4,790        4,705        9,495        3,923        4,089        8,012
                                     =======      =======      =======      =======      =======      =======
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are counted as one well. If any well in which one of the multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion,  then the well is  classified as an oil
     well.  As of December 31, 2006,  the Company  owned  interests in 208 gross
     wells containing multiple completions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Leasehold  acreage.  The following table sets forth  information  about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2006:

                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Developed Acreage             Undeveloped Acreage
                                    --------------------------    --------------------------      Royalty
                                    Gross Acres     Net Acres     Gross Acres     Net Acres       Acreage
                                    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                 <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
       United States:
         Onshore..............        1,374,610      1,203,463      2,897,525      1,306,252       291,987
         Offshore.............           59,340         21,007        235,126        185,197        10,500
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------     ----------     ---------
                                      1,433,950      1,224,470      3,132,651      1,491,449       302,487
       Canada.................          266,000        194,000        547,000        488,000        23,000
       South Africa...........          124,600         55,590      3,503,400      1,576,530            --
       Tunisia................          212,420         42,484      3,812,253      2,581,278            --
       West Africa............               --             --      1,297,951        495,476            --
                                     ----------     ----------     ----------     ----------     ---------
         Total................        2,036,970      1,516,544     12,293,255      6,632,733       325,487
                                     ==========     ==========     ==========     ==========     =========
</TABLE>


                                       29



<PAGE>


     The following  table sets forth the  expiration  dates of the leases on the
Company's gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                    Acres Expiring (a)
                                                --------------------------
                                                  Gross             Net
                                                ----------      ----------
<S>      <C>                                     <C>             <C>
         2007 (b).........................       7,580,318       4,380,838
         2008.............................         585,640         349,826
         2009.............................       1,045,412         528,766
         2010.............................         380,582         317,256
         2011.............................         281,594         177,313
         Thereafter.......................       2,419,709         878,734
                                                ----------       ---------
           Total..........................      12,293,255       6,632,733
                                                ==========       =========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities.

(b)  Acres  subject to  expiration  during 2007 include 3.5 million  gross acres
     (1.6  million  net acres) in South  Africa,  3.8  million  gross acres (2.6
     million net acres) in Tunisia and 264,665  gross acres  (223,030 net acres)
     in North  America.  The acreage in South Africa  relates to areas where the
     Company  has no  intention  to drill,  has no cost basis in the acreage and
     intends to let the  acreage  expire.  In Tunisia,  the  Company  either has
     received extensions, plans to make the necessary expenditures to extend the
     acreage or intends to seek  extensions on the 2007  expirations.  As to the
     remaining  acreage  the  Company  may  extend  the  leases  prior  to their
     expiration  based  upon  2007  planned  activities  or for  other  business
     reasons.  In certain leases, the extension is only subject to the Company's
     election  to extend and the  fulfillment  of certain  capital  expenditures
     commitments.  In other cases,  the extensions are subject to the consent of
     third parties,  and no assurance can be given that the requested extensions
     will be granted.  See  "Description  of Properties"  above for  information
     regarding the Company's drilling operations.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and
net productive and dry hole wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled during 2006,  2005 and 2004. This  information  should not be considered
indicative  of future  performance,  nor should it be assumed that there was any
correlation  between the number of productive  wells drilled and the oil and gas
reserves  generated  thereby  or the costs to the  Company of  productive  wells
compared to the costs of dry holes.



                                       30



<PAGE>


                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        Gross Wells                          Net Wells
                               ------------------------------      ------------------------------
                                   Year Ended December 31,             Year Ended December 31,
                               ------------------------------      ------------------------------
                                2006        2005        2004        2006        2005        2004
                               ------      ------      ------      ------      ------      ------
<S>                            <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
United States:
   Productive wells:
    Development............       662         537         268         619         505         243
    Exploratory............        52          40           8          42          37           5
   Dry holes:
    Development............         8           7           3           7           7           3
    Exploratory............         8           7           6           6           5           3
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
                                  730         591         285         674         554         254
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
Argentina:
   Productive wells:
    Development............        14          65          43          14          64          42
    Exploratory............         4          19          21           4          18          21
   Dry holes:
    Development............         1           4           1           1           4           1
    Exploratory............         2          14          10           2          14          10
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
                                   21         102          75          21         100          74
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
Canada:
   Productive wells:
    Development............         2          27           3           2          26           3
    Exploratory............       326          87          27         297          72          25
   Dry holes:
    Development............        --          --          --          --          --          --
    Exploratory............        16           7          24          15           7          23
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
                                  344         121          54         314         105          51
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
South Africa:
   Productive wells:
    Development............         2          --          --           1          --          --
    Exploratory............        --           1          --          --          --          --
   Dry holes:
    Development............        --          --          --          --          --          --
    Exploratory............         1          --          --           1          --          --
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
   Total...................         3           1          --           2          --          --
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
Tunisia:
   Productive wells:
    Development............        --          --           2          --          --           1
    Exploratory............         2           2           1           1           1          --
   Dry holes:
    Development............        --          --          --          --          --          --
    Exploratory............         2           2          --          --           1          --
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
   Total...................         4           4           3           1           2           1
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
West Africa:
   Productive wells:
    Development............        --          --          --          --          --          --
    Exploratory............        --          --           1          --          --           1
   Dry holes:
    Development............        --          --          --          --          --          --
    Exploratory............         1           1           5          --          --           4
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
                                    1           1           6          --          --           5
                                -----       -----       -----       -----       -----       -----
   Total...................     1,103         820         423       1,012         761         385
                                =====       =====       =====       =====       =====       =====
Success ratio (a)..........       96%          95%         88%        97%          95%         89%

<FN>

                                       31


<PAGE>

- ----------

(a)  Represents  the ratio of those wells that were  successfully  completed  as
     producing  wells or wells  capable of producing to total wells  drilled and
     evaluated.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The following table sets forth  information  about the Company's wells upon
which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Gross Wells     Net Wells
                                                 -----------     ---------

<S>                                              <C>              <C>
         United States:
           Development.....................           18             17
           Exploratory.....................           21             14
                                                    ----           ----
                                                      39             31
                                                    ----           ----
         Canada:
           Development.....................            3              2
           Exploratory.....................           16             12
                                                    ----           ----
                                                      19             14
                                                    ----           ----
         South Africa:
           Development.....................            2              1
           Exploratory.....................           --             --
                                                    ----           ----
                                                       2              1
                                                    ----           ----
         Tunisia:
           Development.....................           --             --
           Exploratory.....................            5              3
                                                    ----           ----
                                                       5              3
                                                    ----           ----
           Total...........................           65             49
                                                    ====           ====
</TABLE>

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The  Company is party to the legal  proceedings  that are  described  under
"Legal actions" in Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data". The Company is also
party to other proceedings and claims incidental to its business.  While many of
these matters involve inherent uncertainty, the Company believes that the amount
of the  liability,  if any,  ultimately  incurred  with  respect  to such  other
proceedings and claims will not have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated  financial  position  as a  whole  or  on  its  liquidity,  capital
resources or future annual results of operations.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during
the fourth quarter of 2006.




                                       32


<PAGE>


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

     The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and  traded on the NYSE  under the
symbol  "PXD".  The Board  declared  dividends  to the holders of the  Company's
common stock of $.25 per share and $.22 per share during each of the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     The  following  table  sets  forth  quarterly  high and low  prices  of the
Company's  common  stock and  dividends  declared  per share for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                     Dividends
                                                                     Declared
                                                 High        Low     Per Share
                                              ---------   ---------  ---------
<S>                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
     Year ended December 31, 2006:
      Fourth quarter.......................   $   44.46   $   36.48   $    --
      Third quarter........................   $   46.68   $   37.07   $   .13
      Second quarter.......................   $   46.75   $   36.43   $    --
      First quarter........................   $   54.46   $   37.98   $   .12
     Year ended December 31, 2005:
      Fourth quarter.......................   $   55.98   $   45.39   $    --
      Third quarter........................   $   56.35   $   39.66   $   .12
      Second quarter.......................   $   45.24   $   36.67   $    --
      First quarter........................   $   44.82   $   32.91   $   .10
</TABLE>

     On February 13, 2007, the last reported sales price of the Company's common
stock, as reported in the NYSE composite transactions, was $40.34 per share.

     As  of  February  13,  2007,  the  Company's   common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 26,534 holders of record.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

     The following  table  summarizes the Company's  purchases of treasury stock
during the three months ended December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                     Total Number of Shares     Approximate Dollar
                                                                      (or Units) Purchased       Amount of Shares
                             Total Number of      Average Price       as Part of Publicly        that May Yet Be
           Period           Shares (or Units)     Paid per Share        Announced Plans          Purchased under
                              Purchased (a)         (or Unit)             or Programs           Plans or Programs
                            -----------------     --------------     ----------------------     ------------------
<S>                            <C>                <C>                     <C>                     <C>
    October 2006.........         1,347,746       $       37.92             1,343,100
    November 2006........             4,700       $       40.02                 4,700
    December 2006........                46       $       43.00                     -
                               ------------                               -----------
     Total...............         1,352,492       $       37.93             1,347,800             $   13,988,043
                               ============                               ===========             ==============
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Amounts include shares withheld to fund tax withholding on employees' stock
     awards for which restrictions have lapsed.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     During  August  2005,  the  Board  approved  a  share  repurchase   program
authorizing  the  purchase of up to $1 billion of the  Company's  common  stock,
$345.3  million  and $640.7  million of which were  completed  in 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  In  February  2007,  the Board  approved  a new share  repurchase
program  authorizing the purchase of up to $300 million of the Company's  common
stock.

                                       33




<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following  selected  consolidated  financial data as of and for each of
the five  years  ended  December  31,  2006 for the  Company  should  be read in
conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition  and Results of  Operations"  and "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  Year Ended December 31, (a)
                                                -------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   2006         2005         2004         2003         2002
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                             <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Statements of Operations Data:
 Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas.................................. $ 1,582.0    $ 1,453.2    $ 1,012.6    $   725.8    $   551.9
  Interest and other (b )......................      58.7         31.6          2.2          7.8          7.6
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net....      (7.9)        59.8           --          1.4          4.2
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                  1,632.8      1,544.6      1,014.8        735.0        563.7
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
 Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.......................     398.3        346.4        224.9        162.4        152.2
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization.....     359.5        299.9        231.6        170.3        154.7
  Impairment of long-lived assets (c)..........        --           .6         39.7           --           --
  Exploration and abandonments.................     264.1        163.3        113.3         93.9         47.9
  General and administrative...................     121.8        114.3         73.2         54.4         43.4
  Accretion of discount on asset retirement
    obligations................................       4.8          4.2          4.1          2.9           --
  Interest.....................................     107.0        126.1        102.0         91.3         95.8
  Hurricane activity, net (d)..................      32.0         39.8           --           --           --
  Other (e)....................................      36.3         99.5         28.4         16.6         30.2
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                  1,323.8      1,194.1        817.2        591.8        524.2
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
  Income from continuing operations before
    income taxes and cumulative effect of
    changes in accounting principle............     309.0        350.5        197.6        143.2         39.5
  Income tax benefit (provision) (f)...........    (136.7)      (155.8)       (63.1)       134.2          (.9)
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
  Income from continuing operations before
    cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle..................................     172.3        194.7        134.5        277.4         38.6
  Income from discontinued operations,
    net of tax (a).............................     567.4        339.9        178.4        117.8        (11.9)
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
  Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
    change in accounting principle.............     739.7        534.6        312.9        395.2         26.7
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle, net of tax (g)..................        --           --           --         15.4           --
                                                ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
  Net income................................... $   739.7    $   534.6    $   312.9    $   410.6    $    26.7
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
  Income from continuing operations before
    cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle per share:
      Basic.................................... $    1.39    $    1.42    $    1.07    $    2.37    $     .34
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
      Diluted.................................. $    1.36    $    1.40    $    1.06    $    2.34    $     .34
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
  Net income per share:
      Basic.................................... $    5.95    $    3.90    $    2.50    $    3.50    $     .24
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
      Diluted.................................. $    5.81    $    3.80    $    2.46    $    3.46    $     .23
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
  Weighted average shares outstanding:
      Basic....................................     124.4        137.1        125.2        117.2        112.5
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
      Diluted..................................     127.6        141.4        127.5        118.5        114.3
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
  Dividends declared per share................. $     .25    $     .22    $     .20    $      --    $      --
                                                =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Total assets................................. $ 7,355.4    $ 7,329.2    $ 6,733.5    $ 3,951.6    $ 3,455.1
  Long-term obligations and minority
    interests.................................. $ 3,483.7    $ 4,078.8    $ 3,357.2    $ 1,762.0    $ 1,805.6
  Total stockholders' equity................... $ 2,984.7    $ 2,217.1    $ 2,831.8    $ 1,759.8    $ 1,374.9

<FN>


                                       34


<PAGE>


- --------

(a)  Certain amounts for periods prior to January 1, 2006 have been reclassified
     (i) in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
     No. 144,  "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets"
     ("SFAS  144") to reflect  the  results  of  operations  of  certain  assets
     disposed  of  during  2006 as  discontinued  operations,  rather  than as a
     component  of  continuing  operations  (see  Notes  B  and  V of  Notes  to
     Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
     and Supplementary Data" for additional discussion) and (ii) to conform with
     the current year presentation.

(b)  Interest  and other  income in 2006 and 2005 include $7.6 million and $14.2
     million,   respectively,   of  income   associated  with  various  business
     interruption  insurance claims.  See Notes M and U of Notes to Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary Data".

(c)  During 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded $.6 million and $39.7 million of
     impairment charges for its Gabonese Olowi field because  development of the
     discovery  was canceled  due to  significant  increases in projected  field
     development costs. See Note S of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

(d)  Hurricane activity, net, for 2006 and 2005 includes $75.0 million and $39.8
     million,  respectively,  of charges to reclaim and abandon the East Cameron
     facilities destroyed by Hurricane Rita. In 2006, the Company recorded $43.0
     million of estimated insurance  recoveries  associated with debris removal.
     See Note U of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

(e)  Other expense for 2006,  2005,  2003 and 2002 includes  losses on the early
     extinguishment  of debt of $8.1 million,  $26.0  million,  $1.5 million and
     $22.3 million,  respectively.  Other expense for 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and
     2002 includes $(11.6) million,  $44.2 million,  $4.2 million,  $2.8 million
     and $1.7  million,  respectively,  of  derivative  ineffectiveness  charges
     (credits).  See  Note  O of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
     included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

(f)  Income tax benefit for 2003 includes a $197.7 million  adjustment to reduce
     United States deferred tax asset valuation allowances.

(g)  Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for 2003 relates to the
     adoption of SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset  Retirement  Obligations" on
     January 1, 2003.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       35



<PAGE>


ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Strategic Initiatives and Goals

     During 2006,  the Company  accomplished  significant  goals  underlying the
strategic  initiatives  established  in 2005 to  enhance  shareholder  value and
investment returns. Together with other important accomplishments, the Company:

       o  Substantially completed a $1 billion  share repurchase program, $640.7
          million of which was completed during 2005 and $345.3 million of which
          was completed during 2006

       o  Completed the divestiture of the Company's assets in Argentina for net
          proceeds of $669.6 million, resulting in a gain of $10.9 million

       o  Completed the  divestiture of the  Company's assets  in the  deepwater
          Gulf of Mexico for  net proceeds of  $1.2 billion, resulting in a gain
          of $726.2 million

       o  Reduced    higher-risk,    higher-impact   exploration   spending   to
          approximately five percent of the total capital spent in 2006

       o  Focused  capital   spending  on  lower-risk   North  American  onshore
          development and extension drilling

       o  Produced 35.9 MMBOE in 2006 from continuing operations

       o  Increased the semi-annual dividend to shareholders to $0.13 per share

Financial and Operating Performance

       Pioneer's financial and operating performance for 2006 included the
following highlights:

       o  Average daily sales volumes,  on a BOE basis,  decreased three percent
          in 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily  due to a 126  percent increase
          in the delivery  of VPP  volumes.  Excluding  the delivery  of the VPP
          volumes in 2006 (5.6 MMBOE) and 2005 (2.5 MMBOE),  the Company's North
          American  production increased  approximately nine percent,  which the
          Company believes provides a better understanding of the actual results
          of the Company's  2006 North American  drilling  program excluding the
          increased VPP deliveries.

       o  Oil and  gas revenues  increased  nine  percent in 2006 as compared to
          2005,  primarily  as a  result  of increases in worldwide  oil and NGL
          prices.

        o Net income increased 38 percent to  $739.7 million  ($5.81 per diluted
          share) in 2006 from  $534.6 million ($3.80 per diluted share) in 2005,
          primarily  on the strength  of higher oil  and NGL prices and gains on
          the sale of deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Argentine assets.

       o  Income from continuing  operations decreased to  $172.3 million ($1.36
          per diluted share) for 2006,  as compared to $194.7 million ($1.40 per
          diluted share)  for 2005,  primarily  due to  higher  exploration  and
          abandonment expenses in 2006.

       o  The Company  recognized income  from discontinued operations of $567.4
          million ($4.45 per diluted share) during 2006,  primarily attributable
          to the  sale of  deepwater  Gulf of  Mexico and  Argentine assets,  as
          compared to  income from  discontinued  operations  of $339.9  million
          ($2.40 per diluted share) during 2005.

                                       36



<PAGE>



       o  Outstanding debt  decreased to  $1.5 billion at  December 31,  2006 as
          compared  to $2.1 billion at  December 31, 2005, primarily  due to the
          application of  sales proceeds  from the  Company's  divestment of its
          assets in Argentina and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.

       o  The Company's  debt-to-capitalization  was 33 percent at  December 31,
          2006 as compared to 48 percent at December 31, 2005.

       o  Net  cash  provided  by   operating  activities  decreased  by  $522.3
          million, or 41  percent as compared to that of 2005,  primarily due to
          the sale of deepwater Gulf of  Mexico and Argentine assets during 2006
          and Canadian and Gulf of Mexico shelf assets during 2005.

       o  The Company added 91 MMBOE of proved  reserves  during 2006, resulting
          in total proved  reserves of 904.9 MMBOE at December 31, 2006.

2007 Outlook and Activities

     Commodity prices. Significant factors that may impact 2007 commodity prices
include  developments  in the issues  currently  impacting Iraq and Iran and the
Middle  East in general;  the extent to which  members of the OPEC and other oil
exporting  nations  are able to  continue  to manage oil supply  through  export
quotas; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals, including
the impact of  increasing  LNG  deliveries  to the United  States.  Although the
Company  cannot  predict the occurrence of events that may affect 2007 commodity
prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected,  the prices for any
commodity that the Company  produces will generally  approximate  current market
prices in the  geographic  region of the  production.  Pioneer will  continue to
strategically  hedge a portion  of its oil and gas price  risk to  mitigate  the
impact of price volatility on its oil, NGL and gas revenues. See Note J of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the Company's
commodity hedge positions at December 31, 2006. Also see "Item 7A.  Quantitative
and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About  Market  Risk"  for  disclosures  about the
Company's commodity related derivative financial instruments.

     Capital  budget for 2007.  The Company  announced a 2007 capital  budget of
$1.1 billion,  excluding acquisitions,  effects of asset retirement obligations,
capitalized  interest and geological and geophysical  administrative  costs. The
2007 capital budget is allocated (i) 50 percent to low-risk development drilling
in onshore North American core areas,  (ii) 25 percent to the development of the
South African South Coast Gas and Alaskan Oooguruk projects, (iii) 20 percent to
test and develop lower-risk  resource plays in onshore North America and Tunisia
and (iv) 5 percent to  high-impact  exploration  activities in the United States
and West Africa. The Company plans to drill and recomplete  approximately 650 to
700 wells during 2007.

     2007 Annual Production. The Company believes that the results from its 2006
drilling  program  and 2007  capital  budget  will allow the  Company to realize
production growth during 2007 of 10 percent or more as compared to the Company's
2006 production.

     First Quarter 2007 Outlook. Based on current estimates, the Company expects
that first quarter 2007  production  will average 97,000 to 102,000  BOEPD.  The
range reflects the typical  variability in the timing of oil cargo  shipments in
South  Africa and  Tunisia  and the  recent  downtime  related to severe  winter
weather in the Company's Rockies and Mid-Continent  areas,  which is expected to
reduce first quarter production by approximately 3,000 BOEPD.

     First quarter  production costs (including  production and ad valorem taxes
and transportation costs) are expected to average $11.25 to $12.25 per BOE based
on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas, reduced production due to weather
downtime and increased weather-related repair costs. Depletion, depreciation and
amortization ("DD&A") expense is expected to average $10.00 to $11.00 per BOE.

     Total exploration and abandonment expense for the quarter is expected to be
$50 million to $90 million  including  (i) up to $25  million  from  high-impact
drilling on Alaska's North Slope,  (ii) up to $30 million from activities in the
Company's resource plays in the Edwards Trend in South Texas,  Uinta/Piceance in

                                       37


<PAGE>



the Rockies area, Canada and Tunisia,  (iii) $30 million in seismic  investments
and  personnel  costs,  primarily  related to the resource  plays the Company is
currently  progressing  and (iv) $5 million  related to acreage and other costs.
General and administrative expense is expected to be $30 million to $35 million.
Interest  expense is  expected to be $25 million to $28  million.  Accretion  of
discount  on asset  retirement  obligations  is  expected to be $1 million to $2
million.

     The Company's first quarter  effective income tax rate is expected to range
from 37 percent to 45 percent based on current capital spending plans and higher
tax rates in certain  foreign  jurisdictions.  Cash income taxes are expected to
range from $5 million to $15  million,  principally  related to Tunisian  income
taxes.

     Share repurchase programs. In February 2007, the Company announced that the
Board approved a new share repurchase program that authorizes the purchase of up
to $300 million of the Company's  common stock.  This share  repurchase  program
follows the Company's previous share repurchase  programs of $1 billion and $300
million, which were essentially completed during 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Acquisitions

     2006 acquisition expenditures. During 2006, the Company spent approximately
$223.2 million to acquire proved and unproved properties, which was comprised of
approximately  $144.8 million of proved properties and $78.3 million of unproved
properties.   The  proved   properties   were  primarily   bolt-on  and  acreage
acquisitions  in the Spraberry  field and Edwards Trend area. In North  America,
the acquisition of unproved  properties is comprised of acreage  acquisitions in
the Spraberry field,  Edwards Trend area,  Rockies area, Alaska and Canada.  The
Company also acquired an additional interest in its Jenein Nord block in Tunisia
and recognized  additional  obligations  associated with its Nigerian  prospects
during 2006.

     2005  acquisition  expenditures.  In July 2005,  the Company  completed the
acquisition of approximately 70 MMBOE of  substantially  proved  undeveloped oil
reserves in the United  States  core areas of the Permian  Basin and South Texas
for $176.9 million.

     2004 Evergreen  merger.  On September 28, 2004,  Pioneer completed a merger
with Evergreen Resources, Inc. ("Evergreen").  Pioneer acquired the common stock
of Evergreen for a total purchase price of approximately $1.8 billion, which was
comprised of cash and Pioneer common stock.

Divestitures

     Argentina and Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. During March 2006, the Company sold
its interests in certain oil and gas  properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico
for net proceeds of $1.2 billion,  resulting in a gain of $726.2 million. During
April 2006,  the Company  sold its  Argentine  assets for net proceeds of $669.6
million,  resulting in a gain of $10.9  million.  The historic  results of these
properties  and the related gains on  disposition  are reported as  discontinued
operations.

     Volumetric production payments.  During January 2005, the Company sold 20.5
MMBOE of proved  reserves in the Hugoton and Spraberry  fields,  by means of two
VPPs for net  proceeds  of  $592.3  million,  including  the  assignment  of the
Company's obligations under certain derivative hedge agreements.

     During  April 2005,  the Company  sold 7.3 MMBOE of proved  reserves in the
Spraberry field, by means of a VPP for net proceeds of $300.3 million, including
the value  attributable to certain  derivative hedge agreements  assigned to the
buyer of the April VPP.

     The Company's VPPs represent  limited-term  overriding royalty interests in
oil and gas reserves  which:  (i) entitle the  purchaser  to receive  production
volumes over a period of time from specific lease  interests;  (ii) are free and
clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures;  (iii)
are nonrecourse to the Company (i.e.,  the  purchaser's  only recourse is to the
assets  acquired);  (iv) transfers  title of the assets to the purchaser and (v)
allows the  Company to retain the assets  after the VPPs  volumetric  quantities
have been delivered.

                                       38


<PAGE>




     Canada  and  Shelf  Gulf of  Mexico.  During  2005,  the  Company  sold its
interests  in the  Martin  Creek and Conroy  Black  areas of  northeast  British
Columbia  and the  Lookout  Butte area of southern  Alberta for net  proceeds of
$197.2 million,  resulting in a gain of $138.3 million. During 2005, the Company
also sold all of its interests in certain oil and gas  properties on the Gulf of
Mexico  shelf for net  proceeds of $59.2  million,  resulting in a gain of $27.9
million.  The  historic  results of these  properties  and the related  gains on
disposition are reported as discontinued operations.

     Gabon divestiture.  In 2005, the Company closed the sale of the shares in a
Gabonese  subsidiary that owns the interest in the Olowi block for $47.9 million
of net proceeds,  resulting in a gain of $47.5 million with no associated income
tax effect either in Gabon or the United States.  In addition,  Pioneer  retains
the potential,  under certain circumstances,  to receive additional payments for
production discovered from deeper reservoirs on the block, if any.

Results of Operations

     Oil and gas  revenues.  Oil and gas  revenues  totaled $1.6  billion,  $1.5
billion and $1.0 billion during 2006, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The revenue
increase  during 2006, as compared to 2005, was due to a 69 percent  increase in
reported oil prices,  including  the effects of  commodity  price hedges and VPP
deliveries,  and an 11 percent increase in NGL prices.  Partially offsetting the
effects of increased  oil and NGL prices was an 11 percent  decrease in reported
gas prices,  including the effects of commodity price hedges and VPP deliveries,
and a three percent  decrease in average daily sales volumes on a BOE basis. The
revenue  increase  during  2005,  as compared  to 2004,  was due to a 19 percent
increase in reported  oil prices,  a 27 percent  increase in NGL prices and a 42
percent  increase in reported  gas prices,  including  the effects of  commodity
price hedges and VPP  deliveries,  along with increased  production in 2005 on a
BOE basis.

     A significant  factor  contributing to the increases in reported oil prices
and  decreases in reported oil sales volumes in 2006 as compared to 2005 was the
initiation of first deliveries of oil volumes under the Company's VPP agreements
in January  2006.  Similarly,  reported  gas prices and  decreases  in gas sales
volumes in 2006 and 2005 as compared to 2004 were impacted by the  initiation of
first  deliveries of gas volumes under the Company's VPP  agreements  during the
first half of 2005 offset by the decline in underlying gas prices. In accordance
with GAAP,  VPP deliveries  result in VPP deferred  revenue  amortization  being
recognized  in oil and gas  revenues  with no  associated  sales  volumes  being
recorded.



                                       39


<PAGE>



     The following  table provides  average daily sales volumes from  continuing
operations,  including the effects of delivery of the VPP volumes, by geographic
area and in total, for 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                               -------------------------------
                                                 2006       2005        2004
                                               --------   --------    --------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>         <C>
         Oil (Bbls):
           United States..................       17,716     21,942      21,863
           Canada.........................          311        210          72
           South Africa...................        4,127      6,588       9,368
           Tunisia........................        2,386      3,477       2,308
                                               --------   --------     -------
           Worldwide......................       24,540     32,217      33,611
                                               ========   ========     =======
         NGLs (Bbls):
           United States..................       18,488     17,403      19,678
           Canada.........................          463        503         425
                                               --------   --------     -------
           Worldwide......................       18,951     17,906      20,103
                                               ========   ========     =======
         Gas (Mcf):
           United States..................      284,732    271,033     209,371
           Canada.........................       43,420     36,427      25,606
           South Africa...................           --         --          --
           Tunisia........................        1,195         --          --
                                               --------   --------     -------
           Worldwide......................      329,347    307,460     234,977
                                               ========   ========     =======
        Total (BOE):
           United States..................       83,659     84,517      76,437
           Canada.........................        8,011      6,784       4,764
           South Africa...................        4,127      6,588       9,368
           Tunisia........................        2,585      3,477       2,308
                                               --------   --------     -------
           Worldwide......................       98,382    101,366      92,877
                                               ========   ========     =======

</TABLE>

     On a BOE basis,  average  daily  production  for 2006, as compared to 2005,
increased by 18 percent in Canada,  while average daily production  decreased by
one percent in the United States and by 33 percent in Africa.  Average daily per
BOE  production  for 2005,  as compared to 2004,  increased by 11 percent and 42
percent in the United  States and  Canada,  respectively,  and  decreased  by 14
percent in Africa.

     Average daily  production  in the United  States was slightly  lower during
2006, as compared to 2005,  primarily  due to a 126 percent  increase in VPP oil
and gas deliveries on a BOE basis,  partially offset by accelerated  development
drilling in core areas. The increase in United States production  volumes during
2005,  as compared to 2004,  was primarily  due to  production  from  properties
acquired in the Evergreen  merger,  partially  offset by first deliveries of VPP
gas volumes during 2005.

     Canadian average daily sales volumes  increased during 2006, as compared to
2005,  primarily due to the significant  drilling  activity in the CBM Horseshoe
Canyon  area.  The  increase in Canadian  production  volumes  during  2005,  as
compared to 2004, was primarily due to new production  from Canadian  properties
acquired in the Evergreen  merger and  production  from new wells drilled during
the 2004 - 2005 winter drilling program.

     Production  declined in Africa  during 2006 and 2005  primarily  due to (i)
normal  production  declines  from  producing  properties  in South  Africa  and
Tunisia,  partially offset by drilling success in Tunisia and (ii) the Company's
interest in the Adam Concession in Tunisia being reduced in 2006 from 24 percent
to 20 percent  in  accordance  with the terms of the  concession  agreement.  In
Tunisia,  the Company  recorded gas sales volumes and revenue for the first time
after finalizing a gas sales arrangement during 2006.


                                       40



<PAGE>


     The following table provides average daily sales volumes from  discontinued
operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                 ----------------------------------
                                                   2006         2005         2004
                                                 --------     --------     --------
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>
          Oil (Bbls):
            United States.....................      2,400        5,280        4,774
            Argentina.........................      2,515        7,869        8,534
            Canada............................         --           28           65
                                                 --------     --------     --------
            Worldwide.........................      4,915       13,177       13,373
                                                 ========     ========     ========
          NGLs (Bbls):
            United States.....................         --           65           60
            Argentina.........................        421        1,824        1,546
            Canada............................         --          112          492
                                                 --------     --------     --------
            Worldwide.........................        421        2,001        2,098
                                                 ========     ========     ========
          Gas (Mcf):
            United States.....................     36,038      230,171      312,468
            Argentina.........................     43,905      137,032      121,654
            Canada............................         14        6,489       16,261
                                                 --------     --------     --------
            Worldwide.........................     79,957      373,692      450,383
                                                 ========     ========     ========
          Total (BOE):
            United States.....................      8,406       43,707       56,912
            Argentina.........................     10,253       32,531       30,356
            Canada............................          2        1,221        3,267
                                                 --------     --------     --------
            Worldwide.........................     18,661       77,459       90,535
                                                 ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

                                       41



<PAGE>



     The  following  table  provides  average  reported  prices from  continuing
operations,  including the results of hedging activities and the amortization of
VPP deferred  revenue,  and average realized prices from continuing  operations,
excluding the results of hedging activities and the amortization of VPP deferred
revenue, by geographic area and in total, for 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                    --------------------------------
                                                      2006        2005        2004
                                                    --------    --------    --------
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>         <C>
         Average reported prices:
          Oil (per Bbl):
           United States........................    $  65.73    $  32.01    $  29.53
           Canada...............................    $  65.57    $  52.12    $  48.37
           South Africa.........................    $  65.92    $  53.01    $  37.87
           Tunisia..............................    $  63.16    $  52.98    $  39.14
           Worldwide............................    $  65.51    $  38.70    $  32.56
          NGL (per Bbl):
           United States........................    $  35.24    $  31.72    $  25.05
           Canada...............................    $  51.47    $  45.79    $  32.03
           Worldwide............................    $  35.64    $  32.12    $  25.20
          Gas (per Mcf):
           United States........................    $   6.15    $   6.94    $   4.99
           Canada...............................    $   6.75    $   7.67    $   4.72
           Tunisia..............................    $   5.97    $     --    $     --
           Worldwide............................    $   6.23    $   7.02    $   4.96
         Average realized prices:
          Oil (per Bbl):
           United States........................    $  62.92    $  54.05    $  39.22
           Canada...............................    $  65.57    $  52.12    $  48.37
           South Africa.........................    $  65.74    $  53.01    $  38.60
           Tunisia..............................    $  63.16    $  52.98    $  39.14
           Worldwide............................    $  63.45    $  53.71    $  39.06
          NGL (per Bbl):
           United States........................    $  35.24    $  31.72    $  25.05
           Canada...............................    $  51.47    $  45.79    $  32.03
           Worldwide............................    $  35.64    $  32.12    $  25.20
          Gas (per Mcf):
           United States........................    $   5.96    $   7.26    $   5.46
           Canada...............................    $   6.61    $   7.67    $   5.37
           Tunisia..............................    $   5.97    $     --    $     --
           Worldwide............................    $   6.04    $   7.31    $   5.45
</TABLE>

     Hedging activities. The Company, from time to time, utilizes commodity swap
and collar  contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on
the  commodities  the Company  produces and sells,  (ii)  support the  Company's
annual capital  budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price
risk associated with certain capital  projects.  During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
Company's  commodity price hedges decreased oil and gas revenues from continuing
operations by $149.0 million,  $284.9 million and $121.9 million,  respectively.
The effective portions of changes in the fair values of the Company's  commodity
price hedges are deferred as  increases  or  decreases to  stockholders'  equity
until the underlying hedged  transaction  occurs.  Consequently,  changes in the
effective  portions of commodity  price hedges add  volatility  to the Company's
reported   stockholders'  equity  until  the  hedge  derivative  matures  or  is
terminated. See Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information concerning
the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2006, 2005 and 2004 from the Company's
hedging  activities,  the  Company's  open and  terminated  hedge  positions  at
December 31, 2006 and descriptions of the Company's commodity hedge derivatives.
Also see "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures About Market Risk"
for additional  disclosures  about the Company's  commodity  related  derivative
financial instruments.

     Subsequent  to  December  31,  2006,  the  Company  reduced  its oil  hedge
positions by terminating  certain oil swap contracts and increased its gas hedge
position  by  adding  additional  gas  swap  contracts.  See  Note J of Notes to

                                       42


<PAGE>


Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information  concerning these changes in the oil and gas
hedge positions.

     Deferred  revenue.  During  2006 and 2005,  the  Company's  recognition  of
previously  deferred VPP revenue  increased oil and gas revenues from continuing
operations  by $190.3  million and $75.8  million,  respectively.  The Company's
amortization  of deferred VPP revenue is scheduled to increase  2007 oil and gas
revenues  by  $181.2  million.  See Note T of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
specific information regarding the Company's VPPs.

     Interest and other income.  The Company's interest and other income totaled
$58.7  million,  $31.5  million and $2.2  million  during  2006,  2005 and 2004,
respectively.  The $27.2 million  increase  during 2006, as compared to 2005, is
primarily  attributable  to (i) $13.8  million  of hedge  ineffectiveness  gains
recorded during 2006, (ii) a $13.2 million increase in interest income primarily
attributable to the investing the proceeds from the Argentine and deepwater Gulf
of Mexico divestitures during 2006 and (iii) $5.6 million of Alaskan exploration
incentive  credits  received  in 2006,  offset  by a $6.6  million  decrease  in
business interruption  insurance claims primarily  attributable to the 2005 Fain
plant fire in the West  Panhandle  field.  The  increase in  interest  and other
income  during  2005,  as compared to 2004,  is  primarily  attributable  to the
recognition of $14.2 million in business  interruption  insurance claims related
to the Fain plant fire. See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional
information regarding interest and other income.

     Gain (loss) on  disposition of assets.  The Company  recorded a net loss on
disposition of assets of $7.9 million in 2006, as compared to net gains of $59.8
million and $39,000 during 2005 and 2004, respectively.

     In 2005,  the gain was primarily  related to (i) the sale of the stock of a
subsidiary  that owned the interest in the Olowi block in Gabon,  which resulted
in a $47.5  million  gain and (ii) a $14  million  insurance  settlement  on the
Company's  East Cameron  facility  that was destroyed by Hurricane  Rita,  which
resulted in a $9.7 million gain.

     During 2006,  the Company  recognized  gains on the sale of its interest in
certain oil and gas properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and its Argentina
assets of approximately $737.2 million. During 2005, the Company also recognized
gains on the sale of  certain  assets  in  Canada  and the  shelf of the Gulf of
Mexico of  approximately  $166.2 million.  However,  pursuant to SFAS 144, these
gains  and  the  results  of  operations   from  the  assets  are  presented  as
discontinued operations.

     The net cash proceeds from asset  divestitures  during 2006,  2005 and 2004
were used,  together with net cash flows  provided by operating  activities,  to
fund additions to oil and gas properties and stock repurchase  programs,  and to
reduce  outstanding  indebtedness.  See  Notes N and V of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

     Oil and gas production  costs.  The Company's oil and gas production  costs
totaled $398.3 million,  $346.4 million and $224.9 million during 2006, 2005 and
2004,  respectively.  In general, lease operating expenses and workover expenses
represent the components of oil and gas production  costs over which the Company
has management control, while production taxes and ad valorem taxes are directly
related to commodity  price changes.  Total  production  costs per BOE increased
during 2006 by 18 percent as compared to 2005 primarily due to (i) the impact of
a 126 percent increase in delivered volumes under VPP agreements,  for which the
Company bears all associated  production  costs and records no associated  sales
volumes  (representing a per BOE production cost impact of  approximately  $1.50
during 2006 as compared to $.59 during  2005),  (ii) general  inflation of field
service and supply costs and (iii)  increases in production and ad valorem taxes
and field utility costs due to increasing commodity and utility prices.

     Total  production  costs per BOE  increased  during  2005 by 41  percent as
compared to 2004. The increase in total  production costs per BOE during 2005 as
compared to 2004 was primarily attributable to (i) an increase in production and
ad valorem taxes as a result of higher  commodity  prices,  (ii) higher Canadian
gas transportation  fees, (iii) the retention of production costs related to VPP
volumes sold  (approximately  $.59 per BOE,  during 2005),  (iv) new  production
added from the Evergreen  merger,  which are relatively higher per BOE operating
cost  properties  and (v) increases in field service and supply costs  primarily
associated with rising commodity prices.

                                       43



<PAGE>


     The  following  tables  provide  the  components  of  the  Company's  total
production  costs per BOE and total  production costs per BOE by geographic area
for 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                       ----------------------------
                                                        2006       2005       2004
                                                       ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
     Lease operating expenses....................      $ 6.23     $ 5.06     $ 3.87
     Third-party transportation charges..........        1.22       1.03        .44
     Taxes:
      Ad valorem.................................        1.24       1.09        .82
      Production.................................        1.69       1.61       1.10
     Workover costs..............................         .71        .57        .39
                                                       ------     ------     ------
      Total production costs.....................      $11.09     $ 9.36     $ 6.62
                                                       ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                       ----------------------------
                                                        2006       2005       2004
                                                       ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
     United States...............................      $10.62     $ 8.99     $ 6.24
     Canada......................................      $16.82     $14.83     $10.79
     South Africa................................      $14.47     $11.79     $ 8.31
     Tunisia.....................................      $ 3.41     $ 3.20     $ 3.58
     Worldwide...................................      $11.09     $ 9.36     $ 6.62
</TABLE>

     Depletion,  depreciation and amortization expense. The Company's total DD&A
expense  was  $10.01,  $8.11  and  $6.81  per  BOE  for  2006,  2005  and  2004,
respectively.  Depletion  expense,  the largest  component of DD&A expense,  was
$9.34, $7.56 and $6.46 per BOE during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  During
2006,  the  increase in per BOE  depletion  expense was  primarily  due to (i) a
generally  increasing  trend in the Company's oil and gas properties' cost bases
per BOE of proved and proved developed reserves as a result of cost inflation in
drilling rig rates and drilling supplies, (ii) the aforementioned sale of proved
reserves under VPP  agreements,  for which the Company  removed proved  reserves
with no corresponding  decrease in cost basis,  (iii) a $.50 per BOE increase in
Tunisian  depletion,  primarily  associated  with 2006 and 2005 decreases in the
Company's  interest  in the  Adam  Concession,  offset  by (iv) a $3.91  per BOE
decrease in South  Africa  depletion,  primarily  associated  with 2006 and 2005
positive revisions to proved reserves based on well performance.

     During  2005,  the  increase  in  per  BOE  depletion  expense  was  due to
relatively higher per BOE cost basis Rocky Mountains area production acquired in
the Evergreen  merger and a higher  depletion rate for the Hugoton and Spraberry
fields as a result of the VPP volumes sold.

     The following  table  provides  depletion  expense per BOE from  continuing
operations by geographic area for 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                                       ----------------------------
                                                        2006       2005       2004
                                                       ------     ------     ------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
        United States...............................   $ 9.07     $ 7.10     $ 5.34
        Canada......................................   $15.39     $12.71     $12.93
        South Africa................................   $ 6.28     $10.19     $12.86
        Tunisia.....................................   $ 4.25     $ 3.75     $ 4.43
        Worldwide...................................   $ 9.34     $ 7.56     $ 6.46
</TABLE>

     Impairment of oil and gas  properties.  The Company  reviews its long-lived
assets to be held and used, including oil and gas properties, whenever events or
circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  value of  those  assets  may not be
recoverable.  During 2005 and 2004, the Company  recognized  noncash  impairment
charges of $644 thousand and $39.7 million, respectively, to reduce the carrying
value of its Gabonese  Olowi field assets as  development  of the  discovery was
canceled.  See "Critical Accounting  Estimates" below and Notes B and S of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for additional  information  pertaining to the Company's
accounting  policies regarding  assessments of impairment and the Gabonese Olowi
field impairment, respectively.

                                       44


<PAGE>



     Exploration,  abandonments, geological and geophysical costs. The following
table provides the Company's  geological and geophysical costs,  exploratory dry
hole expense,  lease  abandonments and other  exploration  expense by geographic
area for 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         United                South
                                         States     Canada     Africa     Tunisia      Other       Total
                                       ---------   --------   --------   ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
Year ended December 31, 2006:
  Geological and geophysical.......    $  79,141   $  5,287   $    288   $   8,402   $  21,536   $ 114,654
  Exploratory dry holes............       80,024      6,438      7,227       6,214      15,845     115,748
  Leasehold abandonments and other.       13,696      2,223         --          --      17,824      33,743
                                       ---------   --------   --------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                       $ 172,861   $ 13,948   $  7,515   $  14,616   $  55,205   $ 264,145
                                       =========   ========   ========   =========   =========   =========

Year ended December 31, 2005:
  Geological and geophysical.......    $  63,707   $  4,452   $    283   $      --   $  34,070   $ 102,512
  Exploratory dry holes............       24,462      3,468        804       9,041       9,136      46,911
  Leasehold abandonments and other.        8,957      1,625        125          --       3,193      13,900
                                       ---------   --------   --------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                       $  97,126   $  9,545   $  1,212   $   9,041   $  46,399   $ 163,323
                                       =========   ========   ========   =========   =========   =========

Year ended December 31, 2004:
  Geological and geophysical.......    $  49,722   $  4,047   $    868   $      --   $  13,965   $  68,602
  Exploratory dry holes............        1,151     11,131       (338)         --      24,798      36,742
  Leasehold abandonments and other.        4,138      3,883         --          --           6       8,027
                                       ---------   --------   --------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                       $  55,011   $ 19,061   $    530   $      --   $  38,769   $ 113,371
                                       =========   ========   ========   =========   =========   =========
</TABLE>

     During 2006,  significant  components of the Company's dry hole  provisions
and  leasehold   abandonments  expense  included  (i)  $34.0  million  of  costs
associated  with the Company's  unsuccessful  exploratory  well on its Block 256
prospect  offshore  Nigeria,  including  $17.8  million of  associated  unproved
leasehold impairment, (ii) $21.6 million of dry hole provisions recorded for the
Company's  unsuccessful Cronus,  Storms and Antigua prospects in the North Slope
area of Alaska, (iii) $18.4 million of dry hole provisions and abandonment costs
recognized on prospects  drilled in prior periods that were being  evaluated for
commerciality,  including  $7.2 million of costs  associated  with the Company's
Boomslang prospect offshore South Africa,  $7.0 million of costs associated with
two  discoveries  on the Gulf of Mexico  shelf in 2005 and $4.2 million of costs
associated with the Company's  Anaguid permit in Tunisia,  (iv) $16.0 million of
dry hole provision and unproved property impairment  recognized on the Company's
unsuccessful Norphlet prospect in Mississippi,  (v) a $14.3 million unsuccessful
well on the Company's  Flying Cloud prospect in the Gulf of Mexico and (vi) $6.4
million of unsuccessful  exploratory  wells in Canada.  During 2006, the Company
completed  and  evaluated  414  exploration/extension  wells,  384 of which were
successfully completed as discoveries.

     Significant  components  of the  Company's  dry hole  expense  during  2005
included  (i) $21.2  million  related to Alaskan  well costs,  (ii) $9.5 million
associated with an unsuccessful  Nigerian well, (iii) $3.5 million  attributable
to an  unsuccessful  suspended well in the Company's El Hamra permit in Tunisia,
(iv)  $5.1  million  attributable  to an  unsuccessful  suspended  well  in  the
Company's  Anaguid  permit in Tunisia and (v) various other  exploratory  wells.
During 2005,  the Company  completed  and  evaluated  180  exploratory/extension
wells, 149 of which were successfully completed as discoveries.

     Significant  components  of the  Company's  dry hole  expense  during  2004
included (i) $19.0 million on the  Company's  Gabonese  Olowi  prospect and (ii)
$5.8 million  associated with the Company's Bravo prospect  offshore  Equatorial
Guinea.    During   2004,    the   Company    completed    and   evaluated   103
exploratory/extension   wells,  58  of  which  were  successfully  completed  as
discoveries.

     General and  administrative  expense.  General and  administrative  expense
totaled $121.8  million,  $114.2 million and $73.2 million during 2006, 2005 and
2004,  respectively.  The increase in general and administrative  expense during
2006,  as compared to 2005,  was primarily due to a full year effect of the 2005
staff increases associated with the Evergreen acquisition. The Company continues
to review  its  general  and  administrative  expenses  and  remains  focused on
initiatives to control its expenditures.

                                       45


<PAGE>



     The increase in general and administrative expense during 2005, as compared
to 2004, was primarily due to increases in administrative staff, including staff
increases   associated  with  the  Evergreen  merger,  and   performance-related
compensation  costs,  including the  amortization of restricted stock awarded to
officers, directors and employees during 2005.

     Interest expense.  Interest expense was $107.0 million,  $126.1 million and
$102.0 million during 2006, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The weighted  average
interest rate on the Company's indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2006
was 6.7 percent,  as compared to 6.5 percent and 5.4 percent for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, including the effects of interest rate
derivatives.  The decrease in interest  expense for 2006 as compared to 2005 was
primarily  due  to the  repayment  of  portions  of  the  Company's  outstanding
borrowings   under  the  Company's   credit  facility  with  proceeds  from  the
divestiture  of the deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and Argentine  assets and an $11.1
million increase in interest  capitalized on the Company's Oooguruk  development
project in Alaska and the South  Coast Gas  project in South  Africa,  partially
offset by a $4.1 million  decrease in the  amortization  of interest  rate hedge
gains.

     The increase in interest expense for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily
due to  increased  average  borrowings  under  the  Company's  lines of  credit,
primarily  as a result  of the cash  portion  of the  consideration  paid in the
Evergreen merger and $949.3 million of stock repurchases  completed during 2005,
a $15.2 million  decrease in the  amortization of interest rate hedge gains, the
assumption of $300 million of notes in connection with the Evergreen  merger and
higher interest rates in 2005.

     See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information about
the Company's long-term debt and interest expense.

     Hurricane  activity,  net.  The  Company  recorded  net  hurricane  related
activity  expenses  of $32.0  million  and $39.8  million  during 2006 and 2005,
respectively,  associated  with the Company's  East Cameron  platform  facility,
located on the Gulf of Mexico shelf, that was destroyed during 2005 by Hurricane
Rita.

     The Company does not plan to rebuild the facility based on the economics of
the field. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company's application to "reef
in-place" a  substantial  portion of the East  Cameron  debris was denied.  As a
result,  the Company currently  estimates that it will cost  approximately  $119
million to reclaim  and  abandon  the East  Cameron  facility.  The  estimate to
reclaim and abandon the East Cameron  facility is based upon an analysis and fee
proposal prepared by a third-party engineering firm for the majority of the work
and an  estimate by the Company  for the  remainder.  During 2006 and 2005,  the
Company recorded  additional  abandonment  obligation charges of $75 million and
$39.8  million,  respectively.  The  operations  to reclaim and abandon the East
Cameron  facilities  began in January  2007 and the  Company  expects to incur a
substantial portion of the costs in 2007. The Company expects that a substantial
portion of the total  estimated cost to reclaim and abandon the facility will be
covered  by  insurance,  including  100  percent of the  debris  removal  costs.
Consequently,  the  Company  has  recorded a $43.0  million  insurance  recovery
receivable corresponding to the estimated debris removal costs.

     Other expenses.  Other expenses were $36.3 million during 2006, as compared
to $99.4 million  during 2005 and $28.4 million  during 2004.  The $63.1 million
decrease in other  expenses  during  2006,  as compared  to 2005,  is  primarily
attributable to (i) a $53.2 million  decrease in hedge  ineffectiveness  charges
and other  derivative  losses and (ii) a $17.9 million decrease in loss on early
extinguishment of portions of the Company's senior notes.

     The  increase in other  expenses  during  2005,  as  compared  to 2004,  is
primarily  attributable to (i) a $43.9 million increase in hedge ineffectiveness
and other derivative  losses and (ii) a $26.0 million loss on the redemption and
tender  of  portions  of the  Company's  senior  notes.  See  Note O of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for a detailed  description of the  components  included in
other expenses.

                                       46



<PAGE>


     Income tax  provision.  The Company  recognized  income tax  provisions  on
continuing operations of $136.7 million, $155.8 million and $63.1 million during
2006, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The Company's effective tax rates for 2006,
2005 and 2004 were 44.2 percent, 44.5 percent and 31.9 percent, respectively, as
compared to the combined  United  States  federal and state  statutory  rates of
approximately 36.5 percent. The effective tax rates of 2006 and 2005 differ from
the combined United States federal and state statutory rates primarily due to:

    o  foreign tax rates,
    o  adjustments to the deferred tax liability for changes in enacted tax laws
       and rates, as discussed below,
    o  statutes in foreign  jurisdictions that differ  from those  in the United
       States,
    o  recognition  of $8.4 million  of  deferred  tax  benefit during 2006 as a
       result  of  the  conversion of  senior  convertible  notes  prior  to the
       Company's repayment of the debt principal,
    o  recognition of $7.2  million  of taxes  during 2005  associated  with the
       repatriation of  foreign earnings pursuant  to the American Jobs Creation
       Act of 2004 and
    o  expenses  for  unsuccessful  well costs  and  associated acreage costs in
       foreign locations where the Company does not expect to receive income tax
       benefits.

     During May 2006,  the State of Texas enacted  legislation  that changed the
existing Texas  franchise tax from a tax based on net income or taxable  capital
to an income tax based on a defined  calculation  of gross  margin  (the  "Texas
margin tax"). Also, during 2006, the Canadian federal and provincial governments
enacted tax rate reductions that will be phased in over several years.  SFAS No.
109,  "Accounting  for Income  Taxes"  requires  that  deferred  tax balances be
adjusted  to reflect tax rate  changes  during the periods in which the tax rate
changes are enacted. The adjustment due to the enactment of the Texas margin tax
and the Canadian tax rate changes  resulted in a $13.5 million United States tax
expense and a $10.2 million  Canadian tax benefit during the year ended December
31, 2006, respectively.

     See  "Critical  Accounting   Estimates"  below  and  Note  P  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information  regarding  the  Company's tax
position.

     Discontinued  operations.  During  2005  and  2006,  the  Company  sold its
interests in the following oil and gas asset groups:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Country               Description of Asset Groups            Date Divested
   -------               ---------------------------            -------------

<S>                      <C>                                    <C>
   Canada                Martin Creek, Conroy Black and
                         Lookout Butte fields                     May 2005

   United States         Two Gulf of Mexico shelf fields          August 2005

   United States         Deepwater Gulf of Mexico fields          March 2006

   Argentina             Argentine assets                         April 2006
</TABLE>

     The  Company  recognized  income  from  discontinued  operations  of $567.4
million  during  2006,  as  compared  to $339.9  million  during 2005 and $178.4
million  during 2004.  Pursuant to SFAS 144, the results of  operations of these
properties  and the related gains on  disposition  are reported as  discontinued
operations. See Note V of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional data on discontinued
operations.

Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

     Capital  commitments.   The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are  for
exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties, repayment of
contractual   obligations   and  working   capital   obligations.   Funding  for
exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas properties and repayment
of   contractual   obligations   may  be   provided   by  any   combination   of
internally-generated  cash flow,  proceeds from the  disposition of nonstrategic

                                       47


<PAGE>



assets or alternative  financing sources as discussed in "Capital resources" and
"Financing  activities"  below.  Generally,  funding for the  Company's  working
capital obligations is provided by internally-generated cash flows.

     Payments for acquisitions,  net of cash acquired. In 2004, the Company paid
$880.4 million of cash, net of $12.1 million of cash acquired, and issued shares
of the Company's common stock to complete the Evergreen merger. The Company also
assumed $300 million  principal  amount of Evergreen notes and other current and
noncurrent  obligations  associated  with the  Evergreen  merger.  As is further
discussed  in  "Financing   activities"  below,  and  in  Note  C  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data",  the  Company  financed  the cash costs  utilizing  credit
facilities.

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company's cash  expenditures  for additions to
oil and gas  properties  during 2006,  2005 and 2004 totaled $1.4 billion,  $1.1
billion and $562.9 million,  respectively.  The Company's 2006  expenditures for
additions to oil and gas  properties  were funded by $754.8  million of net cash
provided by operating  activities  and by a portion of the net proceeds from the
disposition of deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Argentine assets. The Company's 2005
and 2004  expenditures  for additions to oil and gas properties  were internally
funded by $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of net cash provided by
operating activities.

     The  Company  strives to maintain  its  indebtedness  at levels  which will
provide   sufficient   financial   flexibility   to  take  advantage  of  future
opportunities.  The  Company's  capital  budget for 2007 is  approximately  $1.1
billion.  The Company  believes that Credit  Agreement  borrowings  and net cash
provided  by  operating  activities  during  2007,  based on the  current  price
environment, will be sufficient to fund the 2007 capital expenditures budget.

     Off-balance sheet arrangements.  From time-to-time, the Company enters into
off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material
off-balance  sheet  obligations  of the Company.  As of December  31, 2006,  the
material  off-balance  sheet  arrangements and transactions that the Company has
entered  into  include  (i)  undrawn  letters of credit,  (ii)  operating  lease
agreements,  (iii) drilling  commitments,  (iv) VPP  obligations  (to physically
deliver volumes and pay related lease operating  expenses in the future) and (v)
contractual  obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed
and  determinable  such as  derivative  contracts  that are  sensitive to future
changes in commodity prices and gas transportation  commitments.  Other than the
off-balance sheet arrangements described above, the Company has no transactions,
arrangements  or  other  relationships  with  unconsolidated  entities  or other
persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's  liquidity
or availability  of or  requirements  for capital  resources.  See  "Contractual
obligations"  below for more  information  regarding the  Company's  off-balance
sheet arrangements.

     Contractual  obligations.  The Company's  contractual  obligations  include
long-term debt, operating leases, drilling commitments (including commitments to
pay day rates for drilling rigs),  derivative  obligations,  other  liabilities,
transportation commitments and VPP obligations.

     The  following  table  summarizes by period the payments due by the Company
for contractual obligations estimated as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Payments Due by Year
                                                --------------------------------------------------
                                                              2008 and     2010 and
                                                   2007         2009         2011       Thereafter
                                                ----------   ----------   ----------   -----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                             <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
       Long-term debt (a).................      $   32,075   $    3,777   $  328,000   $1,232,985
       Operating leases (b)...............          29,065       27,906        7,429           --
       Drilling commitments (c)...........         330,381      307,265           --           --
       Derivative obligations (d).........          78,233      121,126           --           --
       Other liabilities (e)..............         170,156       70,932       25,750      108,660
       Transportation commitments (f).....          68,630      137,396      130,992      170,546
       VPP obligations (g)................         181,232      306,044      135,166       42,069
                                                ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                $  889,772   $  974,446   $  627,337   $1,554,260
                                                ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========


                                       48


<PAGE>

<FN>
- ----------

(a)  See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data". The amounts included in
     the table above represent principal maturities only.

(b)  See Note I of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

(c)  Drilling commitments  represent future minimum expenditure  commitments for
     drilling  rig services and well  commitments  under  contracts to which the
     Company was a party on December 31, 2006.

(d)  Derivative  obligations represent net liabilities for oil and gas commodity
     derivatives  that were valued as of December  31, 2006.  These  liabilities
     include $131.1 million of liabilities  that are fixed in amount and are not
     subject to continuing market risk. The ultimate  settlement  amounts of the
     remaining  portions of the  Company's  derivative  obligations  are unknown
     because  they  are  subject  to  continuing  market  risk.  See  "Item  7A.
     Quantitative and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note J of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the
     Company's derivative obligations.

(e)  The Company's  other  liabilities  represent  current and noncurrent  other
     liabilities  that are  comprised  of benefit  obligations,  litigation  and
     environmental   contingencies,   asset  retirement  obligations  and  other
     obligations  for which  neither the ultimate  settlement  amounts nor their
     timings can be  precisely  determined  in advance.  See Notes H, I and L of
     Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the
     Company's post retirement benefit obligations, litigation contingencies and
     asset retirement obligations, respectively.

(f)  Transportation  commitments represent estimated  transportation fees on gas
     throughput  commitments.  See  Note I of Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements  included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary
     Data" for  additional  information  regarding the Company's  transportation
     commitments.

(g)  These amounts represent the amortization of the deferred revenue associated
     with the VPPs. The Company's ongoing obligation is to deliver the specified
     volumes  sold  under the VPPs free and clear of all  associated  production
     costs  and  capital  expenditures.  See  Note T of  Notes  to  Consolidated
     Financial   Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
     Supplementary Data".
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Environmental contingency. A subsidiary of the Company has been notified by
a letter from the Texas  Commission  on  Environmental  Quality  ("TCEQ")  dated
August 24,  2005 that the TCEQ  considers  the  subsidiary  to be a  potentially
responsible  party  with  respect  to  the  Dorchester  Refining  Company  State
Superfund  Site  located  in  Mount  Pleasant,  Texas.  In  connection  with the
acquisition  of oil and gas  assets in 1991,  the  Company  acquired  a group of
companies,  one of which was an entity that had owned a refinery  located at the
Mount Pleasant site from 1977 until 1984.  According to the TCEQ,  this refinery
was  responsible  for releases of  hazardous  substances  into the  environment.
Pursuant to applicable Texas law, the Company's  subsidiary,  which does not own
any  material  assets or  conduct  any  material  operations,  may be subject to
strict,  joint and  several  liability  for the costs of  conducting  a study to
evaluate  potential  remedial  options  and  for the  costs  of  performing  any
remediation  ultimately  required  by the TCEQ.  The  Company  does not know the
nature  and  extent  of  the  alleged  contamination,  the  potential  costs  of
remediation  or the portion,  if any, of such costs that may be allocable to the
Company's  subsidiary;  however,  the Company has noted that there  appear to be
other operators or owners who may share  responsibility for these costs and does
not expect  that any such  additional  liability  will have a  material  adverse
effect on its  consolidated  financial  position as a whole or on its liquidity,
financial  position or future annual results of operations.  See Note I of Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding this matter as well
as other environmental and legal contingencies involving the Company.

     Capital  resources.  The Company's  primary capital  resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  nonstrategic  assets.  The Company  expects  that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments during 2007 and for
the foreseeable future.

                                       49


<PAGE>



     Asset  divestitures.  During  March  2006,  the  Company  sold  all  of its
interests in certain oil and gas  properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico for
net  proceeds of $1.2  billion,  resulting in a gain of $726.2  million.  During
April 2006,  the Company  sold its  Argentine  assets for net proceeds of $669.6
million,  resulting in a gain of $10.9  million.  The results of operations  for
these divestitures are included in the Company's  discontinued  operations.  The
net cash  proceeds  from  these  divestitures  were used to  reduce  outstanding
indebtedness  under the Credit Agreement,  to fund a portion of additions to oil
and gas properties, for stock repurchases and for general corporate purposes.

     During May 2005, the Company sold all of its interests in the Martin Creek,
Conroy Black and Lookout Butte oil and gas properties in Canada for net proceeds
of $197.2 million,  resulting in a gain of $138.3  million.  During August 2005,
the Company sold all of its  interests in certain oil and gas  properties on the
Gulf of Mexico shelf for net proceeds of $59.2  million,  resulting in a gain of
$27.9  million.  During  October  2005,  the Company sold all of its shares in a
subsidiary  that owns the  interest in the Olowi block in Gabon for net proceeds
of $47.9 million,  resulting in a gain of $47.5  million.  The net cash proceeds
from the 2005 divestitures were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness.

     During  January 2005,  the Company sold 20.5 MMBOE of proved  reserves,  by
means of two VPPs for net proceeds of $592.3  million,  including the assignment
of the Company's obligations under certain derivative hedge agreements. Proceeds
from the VPPs were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness.

     During April 2005, the Company sold 7.3 MMBOE of proved reserves,  by means
of another VPP for net proceeds of $300.3  million,  including the assignment of
the Company's  obligations under certain  derivative hedge agreements.  Proceeds
from the VPP were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness.

     See Note T of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
8. Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for  additional  information
regarding the Company's VPPs.

     Operating  activities.  Net cash  provided by operating  activities  during
2006,  2005  and  2004 was  $754.8  million,  $1.3  billion  and  $1.1  billion,
respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in 2006,
as compared to that of 2005, was primarily due to the loss of cash flow from the
aforementioned  asset  divestitures.  The  increase  in  net  cash  provided  by
operating  activities in 2005, as compared to that of 2004, was primarily due to
higher commodity prices and the operations acquired in the Evergreen merger.

     Investing activities. Net cash provided by investing activities during 2006
was $145.5 million, as compared to net cash provided by investing  activities of
$84.7  million  during 2005 and net cash used in  investing  activities  of $1.5
billion during 2004.  The increase in net cash provided by investing  activities
during 2006, as compared to 2005, was primarily due to a $396.2 million increase
in proceeds from  disposition  of assets,  partially  offset by a $280.6 million
increase in additions to oil and gas  properties.  The decrease in net cash used
in investing  activities  during 2005, as compared to 2004, was primarily due to
(i) $1.2 billion in proceeds from asset  divestitures  in 2005,  which  included
$892.6  million of net  proceeds  received  from VPPs sold  during 2005 and (ii)
$880.4  million  of cash  consideration  paid in 2004  in  connection  with  the
Evergreen merger offset by an increase of $560.4 million in additions to oil and
gas  properties.  See  "Results  of  Operations"  above  and  Note N of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

     Financing  activities.  Net cash used in  financing  activities  was $913.5
million and $1.4 billion during 2006 and 2005,  respectively.  Net cash provided
by financing activities during 2004 was $414.3 million. During 2006, significant
components of financing  activities  included $554.7 million of net cash used to
repay  long-term  borrowings,  $348.9  million of net cash used to purchase  8.9
million shares of stock and $31.7 million of dividend payments, partially offset
by $17.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of long-term incentive plan stock
options and employee stock  purchases.  During 2005,  financing  activities were
comprised of $353.6 million of net principal repayments on long-term debt, $60.1
million of payments of other noncurrent liabilities, primarily comprised of cash
settlements of acquired hedge  obligations,  $30.3 million of dividends paid and
$949.3  million  of stock  repurchases,  partially  offset by $41.6  million  of
proceeds  from the  exercise  of  long-term  incentive  plan stock  options  and
employee stock purchases.  During 2004,  financing  activities were comprised of
$553.4 million of net principal  borrowings on long-term debt,  $54.3 million of

                                       50


<PAGE>


payments of other noncurrent liabilities,  primarily comprised of settlements of
fair value and acquired hedge obligations and other financial obligations, $92.3
million of stock  repurchases  and $26.6  million of dividends  paid,  partially
offset by $35.1  million of proceeds  from the exercise of  long-term  incentive
plan stock options and employee stock purchases.

     During September 2005, the Company  announced that the Board had approved a
share  repurchase  program  authorizing  the purchase of up to $1 billion of the
Company's  common stock.  During 2006 and 2005, the Company  expended a total of
$348.9  million to acquire  8.9  million  shares of stock and $949.3  million to
acquire 20.0 million shares of stock, respectively,  of which $345.3 million and
$940.3  million,  respectively,  were  repurchased  pursuant  to the  repurchase
programs.  In February 2007, the Board approved a new share  repurchase  program
authorizing the purchase of up to $300 million of the Company's common stock.

     During May 2006,  the Company  issued $450  million of 6.875% Notes for net
proceeds of $447.4 million. The Company used the net proceeds, in part, from the
6.875%  Notes to  repurchase  $346.2  million of its 6.50% Notes and for general
corporate purposes.

     During  2006,  holders  of  all  of  the  $100  million  of 4  3/4%  Senior
Convertible  Notes  due  2021  exercised  their  conversion  rights.  Associated
therewith,  the Company paid $79.9 million in cash, issued 2.3 million shares of
common stock and recorded a $22.0 million increase to stockholders' equity.

     During  September 2005, the Company entered into an amended credit facility
that  provides  for initial  aggregate  loan  commitments  of $1.5 billion and a
five-year  term  (the  "Credit   Agreement").   Effective  September  2006,  the
participating  lenders extended the maturity on $1.395 billion of aggregate loan
commitments under the Credit Agreement to September 30, 2011.

     During April 2005,  $131.0 million of the Company's 8 7/8% senior notes due
2005  matured and were  repaid.  During  2005,  the Company  also  redeemed  the
remaining $64.0 million and $16.2 million,  respectively, of aggregate principal
amount of its 9 5/8% senior  notes due 2010 and its 7.50% senior notes due 2012.
During  September 2005, the Company  accepted tenders to purchase $188.4 million
in principal amount of the 5.875% senior notes due 2012 for $199.9 million.  The
Company  utilized  unused  borrowing  capacity under its credit facility to fund
these financing activities.

     As the Company  pursues its  strategy,  it may  utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Board.

     Liquidity.  The Company's  principal source of short-term  liquidity is the
Credit Agreement.  There was $328.0 million of outstanding  borrowings under the
Credit  Agreement as of December 31, 2006.  Including  $150.2 million of undrawn
and outstanding  letters of credit under the Credit  Agreement,  the Company had
$1.0 billion of unused borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2006.

     Debt  ratings.  The Company  receives  debt credit  ratings from Standard &
Poor's  Ratings  Group,  Inc.  ("S&P")  and  Moody's  Investor  Services,   Inc.
("Moody's"),  which are subject to regular reviews. During 2005, S&P lowered the
Company's corporate credit rating to BB+ with a stable outlook from BBB-. During
2006,  Moody's cut the Company's  corporate credit rating to Ba1 with a negative
outlook from Baa3.  S&P and Moody's  consider  many factors in  determining  the
Company's ratings, including:  production growth opportunities,  liquidity, debt
levels and asset and reserve  mix. As a result of the  downgrades,  the interest
rate and fees the  Company  pays on the  Credit  Agreement  have  increased  and
additional debt covenant requirements under the Credit Agreement were triggered.
During 2006, as a result of the Company's downgrades by the rating agencies, the
Company  issued  additional  letters of credits of  approximately  $79.1 million
pursuant  to  agreements  that  contain  provisions  with rating  triggers.  The
individual  downgrades  are not  expected  to  materially  affect the  Company's
financial  position or  liquidity,  but could  negatively  impact the  Company's
ability to obtain  additional  financing  or the interest  rate,  fees and other
terms associated with such additional financing.

                                       51


<PAGE>



     Book capitalization and current ratio. The Company's book capitalization at
December  31,  2006 was $4.5  billion,  consisting  of debt of $1.5  billion and
stockholders' equity of $3.0 billion.  Consequently,  the Company's debt to book
capitalization  decreased  to 33 percent at December 31, 2006 from 48 percent at
December 31, 2005. The Company's ratio of current assets to current  liabilities
was .60 to 1.00 at December 31, 2006,  essentially  unchanged  from December 31,
2005.

Critical Accounting Estimates

     The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in
this  Report  in  accordance  with  GAAP.  See Note B of  Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a  comprehensive  discussion of the Company's  significant  accounting
policies. GAAP represents a comprehensive set of accounting and disclosure rules
and  requirements,  the application of which requires  management  judgments and
estimates including,  in certain circumstances,  choices between acceptable GAAP
alternatives.   Following  is  a  discussion  of  the  Company's  most  critical
accounting  estimates,  judgments  and  uncertainties  that are  inherent in the
Company's application of GAAP.

     Asset retirement  obligations.  The Company has significant  obligations to
remove  tangible  equipment and  facilities and to restore land or seabed at the
end of oil and gas production operations.  The Company's removal and restoration
obligations  are primarily  associated  with plugging and  abandoning  wells and
removing and disposing of offshore oil and gas platforms.  Estimating the future
restoration  and removal  costs is  difficult  and requires  management  to make
estimates and judgments  because most of the removal  obligations are many years
in the future and contracts and  regulations  often have vague  descriptions  of
what constitutes  removal.  Asset removal  technologies and costs are constantly
changing,  as  are  regulatory,  political,  environmental,  safety  and  public
relations considerations.

     Inherent in the present  value  calculation  are numerous  assumptions  and
judgments including the ultimate settlement amounts,  inflation factors,  credit
adjusted  discount  rates,  timing  of  settlement  and  changes  in the  legal,
regulatory,  environmental  and  political  environments.  To the extent  future
revisions to these  assumptions  impact the present value of the existing  asset
retirement  obligations,  a corresponding  adjustment is made to the oil and gas
property  balance.  See  Notes  B  and  L of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
additional information regarding the Company's asset retirement obligations.

     Successful   efforts  method  of  accounting.   The  Company  utilizes  the
successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing  activities as
opposed to the alternate  acceptable full cost method.  In general,  the Company
believes that, during periods of active  exploration,  net assets and net income
are  more  conservatively  measured  under  the  successful  efforts  method  of
accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method.
The critical  difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and
the full  cost  method  is as  follows:  under the  successful  efforts  method,
exploratory  dry holes and  geological  and  geophysical  exploration  costs are
charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas,  under
the full cost method of accounting,  such costs and expenses are  capitalized as
assets,  pooled  with the costs of  successful  wells and  charged  against  the
earnings of future  periods as a component  of depletion  expense.  During 2006,
2005 and 2004, the Company recognized exploration,  abandonment,  geological and
geophysical  expense from (i) continuing  operations of $264.1  million,  $163.3
million and $113.4 million,  respectively,  and (ii) discontinued  operations of
$7.3  million,  $63.9  million  and  $68.3  million,  respectively,   under  the
successful efforts method.

     Proved  reserve  estimates.  Estimates  of the  Company's  proved  reserves
included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines.
The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

     o  the quality and quantity of available data,

     o  the interpretation of that data,

     o  the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions and

                                       52


<PAGE>


     o  the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

     The  Company's  proved  reserve  information  included in this Report as of
December 31, 2006,  2005 and 2004 was prepared by the  Company's  engineers  and
audited by independent  petroleum  engineers with respect to the Company's major
properties.  Estimates  prepared  by third  parties  may be higher or lower than
those included herein.

     Because  these  estimates  depend  on many  assumptions,  all of which  may
substantially  differ from future  actual  results,  reserve  estimates  will be
different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately  recovered.  In
addition,  results of  drilling,  testing  and  production  after the date of an
estimate  may  justify,  positively  or  negatively,  material  revisions to the
estimate of proved reserves.

     It should not be assumed  that the  Standardized  Measure  included in this
Report as of  December  31, 2006 is the current  market  value of the  Company's
estimated  proved  reserves.  In accordance with SEC  requirements,  the Company
based the Standardized  Measure on prices and costs on the date of the estimate.
Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices
and  costs as of the date of the  estimate.  See  "Item 1A.  Risk  Factors"  for
additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves.

     The Company's  estimates of proved  reserves  materially  impact  depletion
expense.  If the  estimates of proved  reserves  decline,  the rate at which the
Company  records  depletion  expense will increase,  reducing future net income.
Such a  decline  may  result  from  lower  market  prices,  which  may  make  it
uneconomical to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, a decline
in proved reserve  estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's  assessment
of its proved properties and goodwill for impairment.

     Impairment of proved oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its proved
properties to be held and used  whenever  management  determines  that events or
circumstances  indicate that the recorded  carrying  value of the properties may
not be recoverable.  Management assesses whether or not an impairment  provision
is  necessary  based upon its  outlook of future  commodity  prices and net cash
flows that may be  generated by the  properties  and if a  significant  downward
revision  has  occurred to the  estimated  proved  reserves.  Proved oil and gas
properties are reviewed for impairment at the level at which depletion of proved
properties is calculated.

     Impairment  of unproved  oil and gas  properties.  Management  periodically
assesses unproved oil and gas properties for impairment, on a project-by-project
basis.  Management's  assessment  of  the  results  of  exploration  activities,
commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion
of such projects impacts the amount and timing of impairment provisions, if any.

     Suspended wells.  The Company suspends the costs of exploratory  wells that
discover  hydrocarbons pending a final determination of the commercial potential
of the oil and gas  discovery.  The ultimate  disposition of these well costs is
dependent on the results of future drilling activity and development  decisions.
If the  Company  decides  not  to  pursue  additional  appraisal  activities  or
development  of these  fields,  the  costs of these  wells  will be  charged  to
exploration and abandonment expense.

     The Company  generally  does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory
well as an asset  in its  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  for more  than one year
following the completion of drilling unless the  exploratory  well finds oil and
gas reserves in an area  requiring a major capital  expenditure  and both of the
following conditions are met:

      (i)  The well has found a  sufficient quantity of  reserves to justify its
           completion as a producing well.

      (ii) The Company is making sufficient  progress assessing the reserves and
           the economic and operating viability of the project.

     Due to the  capital  intensive  nature  and the  geographical  location  of
certain Alaskan,  deepwater Gulf of Mexico and foreign projects, it may take the
Company longer than one year to evaluate the future potential of the exploration
well and economics  associated  with making a  determination  on its  commercial
viability. In these instances,  the project's feasibility is not contingent upon
price  improvements or advances in technology,  but rather the Company's ongoing
efforts  and  expenditures  related to  accurately  predicting  the  hydrocarbon
recoverability  based on well  information,  gaining access to other  companies'

                                       53


<PAGE>


production,  transportation  or processing  facilities  and/or  getting  partner
approval to drill additional  appraisal wells.  These activities are ongoing and
being pursued constantly.  Consequently,  the Company's  assessment of suspended
exploratory  well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well
has found proved  reserves or is  noncommercial  and is impaired.  See Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the
Company's suspended exploratory well costs.

     Assessments of functional currencies.  Management determines the functional
currencies of the Company's  subsidiaries based on an assessment of the currency
of the economic environment in which a subsidiary primarily realizes and expends
its operating  revenues,  costs and expenses.  The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency of all of the Company's  international  operations  except Canada.  The
assessment of functional  currencies  can have a significant  impact on periodic
results of operations and financial position.

     Argentine economic and currency  measures.  In April 2006, the Company sold
its assets in Argentina for proceeds of $669.6  million,  resulting in a gain of
$10.9 million. Prior to the divestiture, the accounting for and remeasurement of
the  Company's  Argentine  balance  sheets  as  of  December  31,  2005  reflect
management's  assumptions  regarding  some  uncertainties  unique to Argentina's
economic  environment.  The Argentine economic and political situation continues
to evolve and the Argentine  government may enact future regulations or policies
that, when finalized and adopted,  may materially impact, among other items, the
timing  of  repatriations  of the  sales  proceeds  and  contingent  liabilities
associated  with the Company's  retained  obligations  and its  indemnifications
provided  to the  purchaser  of the  assets.  See  "Item  7A.  Quantitative  and
Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market Risk" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for a description of the assumptions  utilized in the preparation of these
financial statements.

     Deferred tax asset valuation  allowances.  The Company continually assesses
both positive and negative  evidence to determine whether it is more likely than
not that its  deferred  tax assets will be realized  prior to their  expiration.
Pioneer monitors  Company-specific,  oil and gas industry and worldwide economic
factors and  reassesses  the  likelihood  that the Company's net operating  loss
carryforwards  and other  deferred tax attributes in each  jurisdiction  will be
utilized prior to their  expiration.  There can be no assurances  that facts and
circumstances  will not  materially  change and require the Company to establish
deferred tax asset  valuation  allowances in certain  jurisdictions  in a future
period.  As of  December  31,  2006,  the  Company  does  not  believe  there is
sufficient  positive  evidence to reverse its  valuation  allowances  related to
certain foreign tax jurisdictions.

     Goodwill  impairment.  The Company  reviews its goodwill for  impairment at
least  annually.  This  requires  the Company to estimate  the fair value of the
assets and  liabilities  of the  reporting  units that have  goodwill.  There is
considerable  judgment  involved in estimating fair values,  particularly in the
estimation  of  proved  reserves  as  described  above.  See  Note B of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for additional information.

     Litigation and environmental contingencies. The Company makes judgments and
estimates in recording  liabilities  for ongoing  litigation  and  environmental
remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons.
The  costs to  settle  litigation  can vary from  estimates  based on  differing
interpretations  of laws and opinions and  assessments on the amount of damages.
Similarly,  environmental  remediation liabilities are subject to change because
of changes  in laws and  regulations,  developing  information  relating  to the
extent and nature of site  contamination  and improvements in technology.  Under
GAAP, a liability is recorded  for these types of  contingencies  if the Company
determines the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimable.  See Note I of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the
Company's commitments and contingencies.

     Valuations of defined benefit pension and postretirement plans. The Company
is the sponsor of certain defined benefit pension and  postretirement  plans. In
accordance  with GAAP,  the Company is required to estimate the present value of
its unfunded pension and accumulated  postretirement benefit obligations.  Based
on those values, the Company records the unfunded obligations of those plans and
records ongoing service costs and associated interest expense.  The valuation of
the  Company's  pension  and  accumulated   postretirement  benefit  obligations
requires  management  assumptions  and  judgments as to benefit  cost  inflation
factors,  mortality  rates and discount  factors.  Changes in these  factors may
materially   change   future   benefit   costs  and  pension   and   accumulated
postretirement  benefit obligations.  See "New Accounting  Pronouncements" below

                                       54


<PAGE>


and Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Consolidated   Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  additional
information  regarding  the  Company's  pension and  accumulated  postretirement
benefit obligations.

     Valuation of stock-based  compensation.  The Company  adopted the "modified
prospective"  approach as  prescribed  under SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006.
Under this  approach,  the  Company is required to expense all options and other
stock-based  compensation  that vested during the year of adoption  based on the
fair value of the award on the grant date. The  calculation of the fair value of
stock-based  compensation  requires  the use of  estimates to derive the various
inputs  necessary for using the  Black-Scholes  valuation  method elected by the
Company.

New Accounting Pronouncements

     The  following   discussions   provide  information  about  new  accounting
pronouncements  that were issued by the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board
("FASB") during 2006:

     FIN 48. In July 2006, the FASB issued  Interpretation  No. 48,  "Accounting
for  Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN No. 48"). The  Interpretation  clarifies
the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum  recognition  threshold
that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements.  FIN No. 48 also provides  guidance on measurement,  classification,
interim  accounting  and  disclosure.  FIN No. 48 is effective  for fiscal years
beginning  after  December 15,  2006.  The Company is  continuing  to assess the
potential impacts of this Interpretation.

     SFAS 157. In  September  2006,  the FASB  issued SFAS No. 157,  "Fair Value
Measures" ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value and enhances disclosures about fair value measures required
under other accounting pronouncements,  but does not change existing guidance as
to whether or not an instrument is carried at fair value.  SFAS 157 is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is continuing to
assess the impact of SFAS 157.

     SFAS  158.  In  September  2006,  the FASB  issued  SFAS  158,  "Employers'
Accounting for Defined  Benefit Pension and other  Postretirement  Plans" ("SFAS
158").   Under  SFAS  158,  a  business   entity  that   sponsors  one  or  more
single-employer defined benefit plans is required to:

   o   recognize the  funded status  of a  benefit  plan in  its  balance sheet,
       measured  as the  difference  between  plan  assets at  fair value  (with
       limited exceptions) and the benefit obligation,
   o   recognize as a  component of other  comprehensive income, net of tax, the
       gains or losses and prior service costs or  credits that arise during the
       period,  but are not  recognized as  components  of net periodic  benefit
       cost,
   o   measure defined  benefit plan  assets and  obligations as  of the date of
       the  employer's  fiscal  year-end  statement  of  financial  position and
   o   disclose in the  notes to  financial  statements  additional  information
       about certain  effects on net  periodic benefit cost  for the next fiscal
       year that arise  from delayed recognition  of the gains or  losses, prior
       service costs or credits, and transition assets or obligations.

     An employer  with  publicly  traded  securities  is  required to  initially
recognize the funded status of its defined benefit  postretirement  plans and to
provide the required  disclosures  as of the end of the first fiscal year ending
after  December 15,  2006.  The Company has adopted the  provisions  of SFAS 158
effective on December 31, 2006.  The Company  previously  recognized  the funded
status of its defined  benefit  postretirement  plans and  currently  recognizes
periodic  changes in its defined benefit  postretirement  plans as components of
service costs in the period of change as allowed by SFAS 158. Consequently,  the
adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on the Company's  liquidity,
financial  position  or future  results  of  operations.  See Note H of Notes to
Consolidated   Financial   Statements  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary   Data"  for  additional   information   regarding  the  Company's
postretirement plans.

                                       55



<PAGE>


ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The following  quantitative  and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2006
and 2005,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates or commodity  prices.
Although certain derivative  contracts to which the Company has been a party did
not  qualify as hedges,  the  Company  does not enter into  derivative  or other
financial instruments for trading purposes.

     The fair value of the Company's derivative contracts is determined based on
counterparties'  estimates and valuation models.  The Company did not change its
valuation method during 2006. During 2006, the Company was a party to commodity,
interest  rate and foreign  exchange rate swap  contracts  and commodity  collar
contracts.  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information
regarding the  Company's  derivative  contracts,  including  deferred  gains and
losses on terminated  derivative  contracts.  The following table reconciles the
changes  that  occurred  in the fair  values of the  Company's  open  derivative
contracts during 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      Derivative Contract Net Liabilities (a)
                                                 --------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Foreign
                                                               Interest     Exchange
                                                 Commodity       Rate         Rate          Total
                                                ----------     --------     --------     ----------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                             <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
Fair value of contracts outstanding as of
   December 31, 2005.........................   $ (748,477)    $     --     $    --      $ (748,477)
Changes in contract fair values (b)..........      187,895        1,349         (22)        189,222
Contract maturities..........................      163,955           --          22         163,977
Contract terminations........................      328,399       (1,349)         --         327,050
                                                ----------     --------     -------      -----------
Fair value of contracts outstanding as
   of December 31, 2006......................   $  (68,228)    $     --     $    --      $  (68,228)
                                                ==========     ========     =======      ===========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Represents the fair values of open derivative  contracts  subject to market
     risk.  The Company also had $131.1 million and $870 thousand of obligations
     under   terminated   derivatives   as  of  December   31,  2006  and  2005,
     respectively, for which no market risk exists.
(b)  At inception,  new derivative contracts entered into by the Company have no
     intrinsic value.
</FN>
</TABLE>

Quantitative Disclosures

     Foreign  exchange  rate  sensitivity.  From  time-to-time,   the  Company's
Canadian  subsidiary  enters into  short-term  forward  currency  agreements  to
purchase Canadian dollars with U.S. dollar gas sales proceeds.  The Company does
not designate these derivatives as hedges due to their short-term nature.  There
were no outstanding forward currency agreements at December 31, 2006.


                                       56



<PAGE>


     Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide  information about
other financial  instruments to which the Company was a party as of December 31,
2006 and 2005 that  were  sensitive  to  changes  in  interest  rates.  For debt
obligations,  the tables  present  maturities by expected  maturity  dates,  the
weighted  average  interest  rates expected to be paid on the debt given current
contractual terms and market conditions and the debt's estimated fair value. For
fixed rate debt, the weighted  average  interest rate represents the contractual
fixed rates that the Company was obligated to periodically pay on the debt as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.  For variable rate debt,  the average  interest rate
represents  the  average  rates  being  paid  on  the  debt  projected   forward
proportionate  to the forward  yield curve for LIBOR on February 19, 2007. As of
December  31,  2006,  the Company was not a party to material  derivatives  that
would subject it to interest rate sensitivity.


                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2006
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                        Liability
                                                         Year Ending December 31,                                     Fair Value at
                               ----------------------------------------------------------------------                 December 31,
                                 2007        2008        2009        2010        2011      Thereafter      Total           2006
                               --------    --------    --------    --------    --------    ----------    ----------    -------------
                                                            (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                            <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>
Total Debt:
Fixed rate principal
  maturities (a).............  $ 32,075    $  3,777    $     --    $     --    $     --    $1,232,985   $1,268,837    $  1,244,846
  Weighted average interest
   rate (%)..................      6.64        6.25        6.51        6.51         6.51         6.51
Variable rate maturities.....  $     --    $     --    $     --    $ 22,960    $ 305,040   $       --   $  328,000    $    328,000
  Average interest rate (%)..      6.23        5.87        5.88        5.96         6.28           --
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Represents  maturities  of principal  amounts  excluding  (i) debt issuance
     discounts and premiums and (ii) deferred fair value hedge gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
                    Debt Obligations as of December 31, 2005
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                        Liability
                                                         Year Ending December 31,                                     Fair Value at
                               ----------------------------------------------------------------------                 December 31,
                                 2006        2007        2008        2009        2010      Thereafter      Total           2005
                               --------    --------    --------    --------    --------    ----------    ----------    -------------
                                                           (in thousands, except interest rates)
<S>                            <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>
Total Debt:
Fixed rate principal
  maturities (a)..........     $     --    $ 32,075    $350,000    $     --    $     --    $  882,985    $1,265,060    $  1,369,404
  Weighted average interest
   rate (%)...............         6.31        6.29        6.16        6.16        6.16          6.16
Variable rate maturities..     $     --    $     --    $     --    $     --    $900,000    $       --    $  900,000     $   900,000
  Average interest rate (%)        5.88        6.00        6.02        6.10        6.16            --
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Represents  maturities  of principal  amounts  excluding  (i) debt issuance
     discounts and premiums and (ii) deferred fair value hedge gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information about
the Company's oil and gas derivative  financial  instruments that were sensitive
to  changes  in oil and gas  prices as of  December  31,  2006 and  2005.  As of
December  31,  2006  and  2005,  all of the  Company's  oil and  gas  derivative
financial instruments qualified as hedges.

                                       57



<PAGE>


     Commodity hedge  instruments.  The Company hedges commodity price risk with
derivative contracts,  such as swap and collar contracts. Swap contracts provide
a fixed price for a notional amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts  provide
minimum ("floor") and maximum  ("ceiling")  prices for the Company on a notional
amount of sales  volumes,  thereby  allowing  some  price  participation  if the
relevant index price closes above the floor price.

     See Notes B, E and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a description of
the accounting  procedures  followed by the Company relative to hedge derivative
financial  instruments and for specific  information  regarding the terms of the
Company's derivative financial  instruments that are sensitive to changes in oil
or gas prices.

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2006
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                          Liability
                                                       Year Ending December 31,         Fair Value at
                                                  ---------------------------------     December 31,
                                                     2007        2008        2009           2006
                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------     -------------
                                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
Average daily notional Bbl volumes (a):
Swap contracts (b)............................        4,512       6,500          --       $  130,574
Weighted average fixed price per Bbl..........    $   31.44   $   31.19   $      --
Average forward NYMEX oil prices (c)..........    $   61.47   $   63.93   $   63.86

<FN>
- ----------

(a)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter.

(b)  Subsequent  to  December  31,  2006,  the  Company  reduced  its oil  hedge
     positions  by  terminating  the  following  oil swap  contracts  which  are
     included in the table above:  (i) 4,342 Bbls per day of 2007 swap contracts
     with a fixed  price of $31.47  per Bbl and (ii)  2,500 Bbls per day of 2008
     swap contracts with a fixed price of $29.90 per Bbl.

(c)  The average  forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 19, 2007 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2005
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                          Liability
                                                       Year Ending December 31,         Fair Value at
                                                  ---------------------------------     December 31,
                                                     2006        2007        2008           2005
                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------     -------------
                                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
Swap contracts...............................        10,000      13,000      17,000       $  441,189
Weighted average fixed price per Bbl.........     $   31.69   $   30.89   $  29.21
Collar contracts.............................         9,129       4,500         --        $   21,879
Weighted average ceiling price per Bbl.......     $   74.92   $   90.43   $     --
Weighted average floor price per Bbl.........     $   44.25   $   50.00   $     --
Average forward NYMEX oil prices (a).........     $   62.72   $   65.52   $  64.84

<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The average  forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 15, 2006 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       58



<PAGE>


                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2006
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                      Asset
                                                      Year Ending December 31,    Fair Value at
                                                      ------------------------    December 31,
                                                         2007           2008          2006
                                                      ---------      ---------    -------------
                                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>          <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a) (b):
Average daily notional MMBtu volumes (c):
Swap contracts...................................        86,194         15,000     $   54,835
Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu...........     $    8.13      $    8.62
Collar contracts.................................         6,164             --     $    7,511
Weighted average ceiling price per MMBtu.........     $   11.52      $      --
Weighted average floor price per MMBtu...........     $    9.00      $      --
Average forward NYMEX gas prices (d).............     $    7.99      $    8.29
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(b)  Subsequent to December 31, 2006,  the Company  entered into  additional gas
     swap contracts of  approximately  102,192 MMBtu per day at an average price
     of $8.13 per MMBtu for the Company's 2007 production.

(c)  See Note J of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter.

(d)  The average  forward NYMEX gas prices are based on February 19, 2007 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                              Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2005
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                          Liability
                                                       Year Ending December 31,         Fair Value at
                                                  ---------------------------------     December 31,
                                                     2006        2007        2008           2005
                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------     -------------
                                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
Gas Hedge Derivatives (a):
Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
Swap contracts................................       73,842      29,195       5,000       $  213,543
Weighted average fixed price per MMBtu........    $    4.30   $    4.28   $    5.38
Collar contracts..............................      183,685     215,000          --       $   71,866
Weighted average ceiling price per MMBtu......    $   13.76   $   11.84   $      --
Weighted average floor price per MMBtu........    $    6.62   $    6.57   $      --
Average forward NYMEX gas prices (b)..........    $    7.81   $    8.99   $    8.76
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     collar contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(b)  The average  forward NYMEX gas prices are based on February 15, 2006 market
     quotes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       59



<PAGE>


Qualitative Disclosures

     Non-derivative financial instruments. The Company is a borrower under fixed
rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate risk.
The  Company's  objective in borrowing  under fixed or variable  rate debt is to
satisfy capital  requirements  while  minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
See Note F of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data" for a discussion of the Company's
debt instruments.

     Derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company  utilizes  interest  rate,
foreign exchange rate and commodity price derivative contracts to hedge interest
rate,  foreign  exchange  rate and  commodity  price  risks in  accordance  with
policies and guidelines approved by the Board. In accordance with those policies
and guidelines,  the Company's executive  management  determines the appropriate
timing and extent of hedge transactions.

     Foreign  currency,  operations  and price risk.  International  investments
represent,  and are expected to continue to represent,  a significant portion of
the Company's total assets.  Pioneer currently has  international  operations in
Africa and Canada,  which together  represented 18 percent of the Company's 2006
oil and gas  revenues.  Although  Pioneer's  primary  focus is  directed  toward
onshore  North  American  opportunities,   Pioneer  continues  to  identify  and
selectively  evaluate  other  international  opportunities.  As a result of such
foreign  operations,  Pioneer's  financial results and international  operations
could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
changes in the legal or  regulatory  environment,  weak  economic  conditions or
changes in political or economic climates and other factors. For example:

     o  local political and economic developments could restrict or increase the
        cost of Pioneer's foreign operations,

     o  exchange controls and  currency  fluctuations could  result in financial
        losses,

     o  royalty and tax  increases and  retroactive  tax  claims  could increase
        costs of Pioneer's foreign operations,

     o  expropriation of the Company's property could result in loss of revenue,
        property and equipment,

     o  civil  uprising,  riots,  terrorist  attacks  and  wars  could  make  it
        impractical to continue operations, resulting in financial losses,

     o  compliance  with  applicable  U.S.  law could  be in  conflict  with the
        Company's contractual  obligations, the laws  of foreign  governments or
        local customs,

     o  import and export regulations  and other foreign  laws or policies could
        result in loss of revenues,

     o  repatriation levels for export  revenues could restrict the availability
        of cash to fund operations outside a particular foreign country and

     o  laws and  policies  of the  U.S.  affecting foreign trade,  taxation and
        investment  could restrict Pioneer's  ability to fund foreign operations
        or may make foreign operations more costly.

     Pioneer does not  currently  maintain  political  risk  insurance.  Pioneer
evaluates  on  a  country-by-country  basis  whether  obtaining  political  risk
coverage is  necessary  and may add such  insurance in the future if the Company
believes it is prudent to do so.

     Argentina. During April 2006, the Company sold its Argentine assets for net
proceeds of $669.6 million, resulting in a gain of $10.9 million. The results of
operations  from the Argentine  operations are being  presented as  discontinued
operations.

     During the decade of the 1990s,  Argentina's government pursued free market
policies, including the privatization of state-owned companies,  deregulation of
the oil and gas  industry,  tax reforms to equalize  tax rates for  domestic and
foreign  investors,  liberalization of import and export laws and the lifting of

                                       60


<PAGE>


exchange controls.  The cornerstone of these reforms was the 1991 convertibility
law that  established an exchange rate of one Argentine peso to one U.S. dollar.
These policies were  successful as evidenced by the elimination of inflation and
substantial economic growth during the early to mid-1990s.  However,  throughout
the  decade,  the  Argentine  government  failed to balance  its fiscal  budget,
repeatedly  incurring  significant  fiscal deficits such that by the end of 2001
Argentina had accumulated $130 billion of debt.

     During 2001,  Argentina found itself in a critical economic  situation with
the combination of high levels of external indebtedness, a financial and banking
system in crisis,  a country  risk  rating that had  reached  levels  beyond the
historical norm, a high level of unemployment  and an economic  contraction that
had lasted four years.

     Late in 2001, the country was unable to obtain additional  funding from the
International  Monetary  Fund.  Economic  instability  increased,  resulting  in
substantial  withdrawals of cash from the Argentine  banking system over a short
period of time. The government was forced to implement monetary restrictions and
placed  limitations  on the  transfer  of funds out of the  country  without the
authorization of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina.

     In January  2002,  the  government  defaulted on a  significant  portion of
Argentina's $130 billion of debt and the national  Congress passed Emergency Law
25,561,   which,  among  other  things,   overturned  the  long  standing,   but
unsustainable,  convertibility  plan. The government  adopted a floating rate of
exchange in February 2002. Two specific provisions of the Emergency Law directly
impacted  the  Company.  First,  a tax on the value of  hydrocarbon  exports was
established  effective  March 1, 2002. The second  provision was the requirement
that domestic commercial transactions, or contracts, for sales in Argentina that
were  previously  denominated  in U.S.  dollars  be  converted  to pesos  (i.e.,
pesofication)  at an exchange rate to be negotiated  between sellers and buyers.
Furthermore, the government placed a price freeze on gas prices at the wellhead.
With the price of gas pesofied and frozen, the U.S.  dollar-equivalent  price of
gas in Argentina fell in direct proportion to the level of devaluation.

     The  abandonment of the  convertibility  plan and the decision to allow the
peso  to  float  in  international  exchange  markets  resulted  in  significant
devaluation of the peso. By September 30, 2002, the peso-to-U.S. dollar exchange
rate had  increased  from 1:1 to  3.74:1.  However,  since  the end of the third
quarter  of 2002,  the  peso-to-U.S.  dollar  exchange  rate had  stabilized  at
approximately 3.00:1.

     As  a  result  of  the  Argentine   economic   instability  and  government
regulation,  the Company (i) received  prices for the oil and gas it produced at
prices  significantly  below those received in its other operating  areas,  (ii)
curtailed the investment the Company made in Argentina and (iii)  ultimately led
the  Company  to dispose  of its  Argentine  assets.  The  Company is  currently
winding-up  the affairs  associated  with its remaining  Argentine  entity.  The
Company is still exposed to the uncertainties surrounding the Argentine economic
and political  situation until the Company completes (i) the distribution of its
remaining  sales  proceeds to the United  States,  (ii) the  liquidation  of its
remaining Argentine entity and (iii) its obligations under the  indemnifications
and retained obligations related to the divestiture of the Argentine assets.

     Africa.  The Company's  producing  assets in Africa are in South Africa and
Tunisia. The Company views the operating environment in these African nations as
stable and the economic  stability as good.  The Company also has an exploration
program in the  developing  West  African  countries  of  Equatorial  Guinea and
Nigeria.  While the values of the various African nations' currencies  fluctuate
in relation to the U.S.  dollar,  the Company  believes  that any currency  risk
associated with Pioneer's African operations would not have a material impact on
the Company's  results of operations given that such operations are closely tied
to oil prices, which are denominated in U.S. dollars.

     Canada. The Company views the operating environment in Canada as stable and
the economic stability as good. A portion of the Company's Canadian revenues and
substantially  all of its costs are denominated in Canadian  dollars.  While the
value of the Canadian  dollar  fluctuates  in relation to the U.S.  dollar,  the
Company believes that any currency risk associated with its Canadian  operations
would not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.

                                       61



<PAGE>


     As of December 31, 2006, the Company's  primary risk  exposures  associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility,  volatility in the exchange  rates of the Canadian  dollar vis a vis
the U.S.  dollar and  interest  rate  volatility.  The  Company's  primary  risk
exposures associated with financial  instruments have not changed  significantly
since December 31, 2006.





                                       62




<PAGE>


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                                                          Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.................   64
 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005............   65
 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
   December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004......................................   66
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended
   December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004......................................   67
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
   December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004......................................   69
 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended
   December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004......................................   70
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................   71
 Unaudited Supplementary Information.....................................  109





                                       63




<PAGE>



                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
                                 ACCOUNTING FIRM


The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of Pioneer
Natural  Resources Company (the "Company") as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and
the related consolidated  statements of operations,  stockholders'  equity, cash
flows and  comprehensive  income for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2006.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with the  standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance about whether the
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the  financial  statements.  An audit also  includes  assessing  the  accounting
principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made  by  management,  as well as
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
the Company at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December  31,  2006,  in  conformity  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.

     As discussed in Note B to the consolidated  financial  statements,  in 2006
the Company  adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No.  123(R),
"Share-Based  Payment" and No. 158  "Employers'  Accounting for Defined  Benefit
Pension and Postretirement Plans."

     We also have  audited,  in  accordance  with the  standards  of the  Public
Company  Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the  effectiveness of the
Company's  internal  control over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2006,
based on criteria established in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 19, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.



                                Ernst & Young LLP


Dallas, Texas
February 19, 2007




                                       64




<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      December 31,
                                                                             -----------------------------
                                                                                 2006              2005
                                                                             ------------     ------------
                                     ASSETS
<S>                                                                          <C>              <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..............................................    $      7,033     $     18,802
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $6,999 and
      $5,736 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively..............         195,534          334,864
    Due from affiliates..................................................           3,837            1,596
  Income taxes receivable................................................          24,693            1,198
  Inventories............................................................          95,131           79,659
  Prepaid expenses.......................................................          11,509           18,091
  Deferred income taxes..................................................          82,927          158,878
  Other current assets:
    Derivatives..........................................................          63,665            1,246
    Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $6,425 as of
      December 31, 2005..................................................          52,229            9,470
                                                                             ------------     ------------
       Total current assets..............................................         536,558          623,804

  Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
    Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts method of
     accounting:
      Proved properties..................................................       7,967,708        8,499,253
      Unproved properties................................................         210,344          313,881
    Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization.................      (1,895,408)      (2,577,946)
                                                                             ------------     ------------
      Total property, plant and equipment................................       6,282,644        6,235,188
                                                                             ------------     ------------
  Deferred income taxes..................................................             345               --
  Goodwill...............................................................         309,908          311,651
  Other property and equipment, net......................................         131,840           90,010
  Other assets:
    Derivatives..........................................................           4,333            1,048
    Other, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $4,045 and $92
      as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.....................          89,771           67,533
                                                                             ------------     ------------
                                                                             $  7,355,399     $  7,329,234
                                                                             ============     ============
                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable:
    Trade................................................................    $    332,795     $    330,151
    Due to affiliates....................................................          17,025           15,053
  Interest payable.......................................................          31,008           40,314
  Income taxes payable...................................................          12,865           22,470
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivatives..........................................................         141,898          320,098
    Deferred revenue.....................................................         181,232          190,327
    Other................................................................         170,156          114,942
                                                                             ------------      -----------
      Total current liabilities..........................................         886,979        1,033,355
                                                                             ------------      -----------
Long-term debt...........................................................       1,497,162        2,058,412
Derivatives..............................................................         125,459          431,543
Deferred income taxes....................................................       1,172,507          767,329
Deferred revenue.........................................................         483,279          664,511
Other liabilities and minority interests.................................         205,342          156,982
Stockholders' equity:
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    122,686,073 and 145,200,293 shares issued at December 31, 2006
    and 2005, respectively...............................................           1,227            1,452
  Additional paid-in capital.............................................       2,654,047        3,775,812
  Treasury stock, at cost: 1,183,090 and 18,368,109 shares at
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.............................         (53,274)        (882,382)
  Deferred compensation..................................................              --          (45,827)
  Retained earnings (accumulated deficit)................................         497,488         (184,320)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
    Net deferred hedge losses, net of tax................................        (167,220)        (506,636)
    Cumulative translation adjustment....................................          52,403           59,003
                                                                             ------------      -----------
      Total stockholders' equity.........................................       2,984,671        2,217,102
Commitments and contingencies............................................
                                                                             ------------      -----------
                                                                             $  7,355,399      $ 7,329,234
                                                                             ============      ===========
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       65

<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                                        ------------------------------------
                                                                           2006         2005         2004
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas........................................................   $1,582,049   $1,453,240   $1,012,608
  Interest and other.................................................       58,723       31,531        2,157
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net..........................       (7,891)      59,827           39
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                         1,632,881    1,544,598    1,014,804
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production.............................................      398,257      346,439      224,903
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization...........................      359,523      299,944      231,598
  Impairment of long-lived assets....................................           --          644       39,684
  Exploration and abandonments.......................................      264,145      163,323      113,371
  General and administrative.........................................      121,830      114,237       73,192
  Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations..............        4,826        4,209        4,130
  Interest...........................................................      107,032      126,086      102,017
  Hurricane activity, net............................................       32,000       39,813           --
  Other..............................................................       36,280       99,437       28,398
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                         1,323,893    1,194,132      817,293
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
Income from continuing operations before income taxes................      308,988      350,466      197,511
Income tax provision.................................................     (136,666)    (155,832)     (63,079)
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
Income from continuing operations....................................      172,322      194,634      134,432
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax......................      567,409      339,934      178,422
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income...........................................................   $  739,731   $  534,568   $  312,854
                                                                        ==========   ==========   ==========

Basic earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations..................................   $     1.39   $     1.42   $     1.07
  Income from discontinued operations................................         4.56         2.48         1.43
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
  Net income.........................................................   $     5.95   $     3.90   $     2.50
                                                                        ==========   ==========   ==========
Diluted earnings per share:
  Income from continuing operations..................................   $     1.36   $     1.40   $     1.06
  Income from discontinued operations................................         4.45         2.40         1.40
                                                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
  Net income.........................................................   $     5.81   $     3.80   $     2.46
                                                                        ==========   ==========   ==========
Weighted average shares outstanding:
  Basic..............................................................      124,359      137,110      125,156
                                                                        ==========   ==========   ==========
  Diluted............................................................      127,608      141,417      127,488
                                                                        ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       66


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   (in thousands, except dividends per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                               Accumulated Other
                                                                                           Comprehensive Income (Loss)
                                                                                           ---------------------------
                                                                                                 Net
                                                                                   Retained    Deferred
                                           Additional                              Earnings   Hedge Gains Cumulative      Total
                                   Common   Paid-in     Treasury      Deferred   (Accumulated  (Losses),  Translation  Stockholders'
                                   Stock    Capital       Stock     Compensation   Deficit)   Net of Tax  Adjustment     Equity
                                   ------  ----------  -----------  ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  ------------
<S>                                <C>     <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>
Balance as of January 1, 2004....  $1,179  $2,734,421  $   (5,385)   $   (9,933)  $(887,848)  $ (104,130)   $ 31,468   $ 1,759,772
Acquisition of Evergreen
  Resources, Inc.................     254     947,334          --        (6,001)         --           --          --       941,587
Dividends declared ($.20 per
  common share)..................      --          --          --            --     (26,557)          --          --       (26,557)
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and
  employee stock purchases.......      --      (2,185)     69,848            --     (32,595)          --          --        35,068
Purchase of treasury stock.......      --          --     (92,256)           --          --           --          --       (92,256)
Tax benefits related to
  stock-based compensation.......      --       6,612          --            --          --           --          --         6,612
Compensation costs:
  Compensation awards............       5      19,122          --       (19,127)         --           --          --            --
  Compensation costs included
    in net income................      --          --          --        12,503          --           --          --        12,503
Net income.......................      --          --          --            --     312,854           --          --       312,854
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedging activity,
   net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge losses....      --          --          --            --          --     (291,642)         --      (291,642)
    Net hedge losses included
     in continuing operations....      --          --          --            --          --       79,962          --        79,962
    Net hedge losses included
     in discontinued operations..      --          --          --            --          --       74,460          --        74,460
  Translation adjustment.........      --          --          --            --          --           --      19,417        19,417
                                   ------  ----------  ----------    ----------   ---------   ----------    --------   -----------
Balance as of December 31, 2004..  $1,438  $3,705,304  $  (27,793)   $  (22,558)  $(634,146)  $ (241,350)   $ 50,885   $ 2,831,780
                                   ------  ----------  ----------    ----------   ---------   ----------    --------   -----------

Dividends declared ($.22 per
  common share)..................      --          --          --            --     (30,339)          --          --       (30,339)
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and
 employee stock purchases........      --       1,310      94,670            --     (54,403)          --          --        41,577
Purchase of treasury stock.......      --          --    (949,259)           --          --           --          --      (949,259)
Tax benefits related to
  stock-based compensation.......      --      18,752          --            --          --           --          --        18,752
Compensation costs:
  Compensation awards............      14      56,146          --       (56,160)         --           --          --            --
  Compensation costs included
    in net income................      --          --          --        26,857          --           --          --        26,857
  Forfeiture of deferred
    compensation.................      --      (5,700)         --         6,034          --           --          --           334
Net income.......................      --          --          --            --     534,568           --          --       534,568
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedging activity,
   net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge losses....      --          --          --            --          --     (539,384)         --      (539,384)
    Net hedge losses included
     in continuing operations....      --          --          --            --          --      180,981          --       180,981
    Net hedge losses included
     in discontinued operations..      --          --          --            --          --       93,117          --        93,117
  Translation adjustment.........      --          --          --            --          --           --       8,118         8,118
                                   ------  ----------  ----------    ----------   ---------   ----------    --------   -----------
Balance as of December 31, 2005..  $1,452  $3,775,812  $ (882,382)   $ (45,827)   $(184,320)  $ (506,636)   $ 59,003   $ 2,217,102
                                   ------  ----------  ----------    ---------    ---------   ----------    --------   -----------
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                       67


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)
                   (in thousands, except dividends per share)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                               Accumulated Other
                                                                                           Comprehensive Income (Loss)
                                                                                           ---------------------------
                                                                                                 Net
                                                                                   Retained    Deferred
                                           Additional                              Earnings   Hedge Gains  Cumulative      Total
                                   Common   Paid-in      Treasury      Deferred   (Accumulated  (Losses),  Translation Stockholders'
                                   Stock    Capital        Stock     Compensation   Deficit)   Net of Tax  Adjustment     Equity
                                   ------  -----------  -----------  ------------ -----------  ----------- -----------  ------------
<S>                                <C>     <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>
Dividends declared ($.25 per
  share).........................  $   --  $        --  $       --    $       --   $ (31,726)  $       --    $     --   $   (31,726)
Conversion of senior notes.......      --      (85,023)    107,023            --          --           --          --        22,000
Exercise of long-term incentive
  plan stock options and
  employee stock purchases.......      --        4,010      39,568            --     (26,197)          --          --        17,381
Purchase of treasury stock.......      --           --    (348,945)           --          --           --          --      (348,945)
Tax benefits related to
  stock-based compensation.......      --        4,247          --            --          --           --          --         4,247
Compensation costs:
  Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)....      --      (45,827)         --        45,827          --           --          --            --
  Compensation awards............       4           (4)         --            --          --           --          --            --
  Compensation costs included
   in net income.................      --       32,065          --            --          --           --          --        32,065
Net income.......................      --           --          --            --     739,731           --          --       739,731
Retirement of shares.............    (229)  (1,031,233)  1,031,462            --          --           --          --            --
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Deferred hedging activity,
   net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge gains.....      --           --          --            --          --      118,139          --       118,139
    Net hedge losses included
     in continuing operations....      --           --          --            --          --       95,005          --        95,005
    Net hedge losses included
     in discontinued operations..      --           --          --            --          --      126,272          --       126,272
  Translation adjustment.........      --           --          --            --          --           --      (6,600)       (6,600)
                                   ------  -----------  ----------    ----------   ---------   ----------    --------   -----------
Balance as of December 31, 2006..  $1,227  $ 2,654,047  $  (53,274)   $       --   $ 497,488   $ (167,220)   $ 52,403   $ 2,984,671
                                   ======  ===========  ==========    ==========   =========   ==========    ========   ===========
</TABLE>


              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.



                                       68


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                                   ---------------------------------------
                                                                       2006         2005           2004
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income..................................................    $   739,731   $   534,568   $   312,854
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
     by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization................        359,523       299,944       231,598
       Impairment of long-lived assets.........................             --           644        39,684
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes...............        148,077        53,489        39,492
       Hurricane activity......................................         75,000        39,813            --
       Deferred income taxes...................................        154,911       104,987        45,514
       Loss (gain) on disposition of assets, net...............          7,891       (59,827)          (39)
       Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt...................          8,076        25,975           (95)
       Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations...          4,826         4,209         4,130
       Discontinued operations.................................       (537,073)      376,952       500,458
       Interest expense........................................         11,042         4,399       (13,413)
       Commodity hedge related activity........................        (11,498)       21,237       (45,102)
       Amortization of stock-based compensation................         32,065        26,857        12,503
       Amortization of deferred revenue........................       (190,327)      (75,773)           --
       Other noncash items.....................................         15,589        19,940        15,022
Change in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects
 from acquisitions and dispositions:
     Accounts receivable, net..................................        121,360      (128,015)      (73,376)
     Income taxes receivable...................................        (23,495)       (1,198)           --
     Inventories...............................................        (48,060)      (36,948)      (14,025)
     Prepaid expenses..........................................          4,808        (7,504)          974
     Other current assets, net.................................        (42,484)          972           262
     Accounts payable..........................................        (36,085)       83,960           250
     Interest payable..........................................         (6,500)       (7,115)        5,533
     Income taxes payable......................................         (3,695)        8,950         3,372
     Other current liabilities.................................        (28,854)      (13,362)      (14,037)
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
       Net cash provided by operating activities...............        754,828     1,277,154     1,051,559
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
   Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired.............             --          (965)     (880,365)
   Proceeds from dispositions of assets, net of cash sold......      1,644,829     1,248,581         1,709
   Additions to oil and gas properties.........................     (1,403,879)   (1,123,297)     (562,907)
   Additions to other assets and other property and
     equipment, net............................................        (95,435)      (39,585)      (36,970)
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
       Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities.....        145,515        84,734    (1,478,533)
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
   Borrowings under long-term debt.............................      1,426,490     1,203,190     1,157,903
   Principal payments on long-term debt........................     (1,981,164)   (1,556,763)     (604,475)
   Borrowings (payments) of other liabilities, net.............            610       (60,129)      (54,252)
   Exercise of long-term incentive plan stock options and
     employee stock purchases..................................         17,381        41,577        35,068
   Purchase of treasury stock..................................       (348,945)     (949,259)      (92,256)
   Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements...          5,989            --             --
   Payment of financing fees...................................         (2,178)       (1,911)       (1,173)
   Dividends paid..............................................        (31,726)      (30,339)      (26,557)
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
       Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities.....       (913,543)   (1,353,634)      414,258
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents...........        (13,200)        8,254       (12,716)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents...          1,431         3,291           674
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year...................         18,802         7,257        19,299
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year.........................    $     7,033   $    18,802   $     7,257
                                                                   ===========   ===========   ===========
</TABLE>

              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.


                                       69


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                                   ---------------------------------------
                                                                       2006          2005          2004
                                                                   -----------   -----------   ------------

<S>                                                                <C>           <C>           <C>
Net income....................................................     $   739,731   $   534,568   $   312,854
Other comprehensive loss:
  Net deferred hedge gains (losses), net of tax:
    Net deferred hedge gains (losses).........................         118,139      (539,384)     (291,642)
    Net hedge losses included in continuing operations........          95,005       180,981        79,962
    Net hedge losses included in discontinued operations......         126,272        93,117        74,460
  Translation adjustment......................................          (6,600)        8,118        19,417
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
    Other comprehensive income (loss).........................         332,816      (257,168)     (117,803)
                                                                   -----------   -----------   -----------
Comprehensive income..........................................     $ 1,072,547   $   277,400   $   195,051
                                                                   ===========   ===========   ===========
</TABLE>











              The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                       consolidated financial statements.


                                       70



<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

     Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer"  or  the  "Company")  is a
Delaware  corporation  whose  common  stock is listed and traded on the New York
Stock Exchange.  The Company is a large  independent oil and gas exploration and
production  company  with  current  operations  in the  United  States,  Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries
since their acquisition or formation.  The Company proportionately  consolidates
less than 100  percent-owned  affiliate  partnerships,  for which certain of its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries  serve as general  partners,  involved in oil and gas
producing  activities in accordance  with  Emerging  Issues Task Force  ("EITF")
Abstract Issue No. 00-1,  "Investor  Balance Sheet and Income Statement  Display
under the  Equity  Method for  Investments  in  Certain  Partnerships  and Other
Ventures".  The Company owns less than a 22 percent  interest in the oil and gas
partnerships that it  proportionately  consolidates.  All material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated.

     Minority  interests  in  consolidated  subsidiaries.  The Company  owns the
majority interests in certain  subsidiaries with operations in the United States
and Nigeria. Associated therewith, the Company has recognized minority interests
in  consolidated  subsidiaries  of  $14.4  million  and  $9.3  million  in other
liabilities  and minority  interests in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance
Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     Minority interests in the net losses of the Company's consolidated Nigerian
subsidiary  totaled $4.9  million and $5.2 million for the years ended  December
31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively,  and are included in interest and other income
in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Minority interests in
the net income of the Company's  consolidated United States subsidiaries totaled
$2.6  million,  $3.5  million and $.9 million for the years ended  December  31,
2006,  2005 and 2004,  respectively,  and are  included in other  expense in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     Discontinued  operations.  During  2005  and  2006,  the  Company  sold its
interests in the following oil and gas asset groups:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Country               Description of Asset Groups             Date Divested
   -------               ---------------------------             -------------
<S>                      <C>                                     <C>
   Canada                Martin Creek, Conroy Black and
                         Lookout Butte fields                      May 2005

   United States         Two Gulf of Mexico shelf fields           August 2005

   United States         Deepwater Gulf of Mexico fields           March 2006

   Argentina             Argentine assets                          April 2006
</TABLE>

     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
144,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets" ("SFAS
144"),  the  Company  has  reflected  the  results  of  operations  of the above
divestitures  as  discontinued  operations,   rather  than  as  a  component  of
continuing   operations.   See  Note  V  for  additional  information  regarding
discontinued operations.

     Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements. Preparation of
the accompanying  consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting  principles in the United States requires management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities,  the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting periods. Depletion of oil and gas properties and impairment

                                       71


<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


of goodwill and oil and gas properties,  in part, is determined  using estimates
of proved oil and gas reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in the
estimation  of  quantities  of proved  reserves and in the  projection of future
rates of  production  and the  timing of  development  expenditures.  Similarly,
evaluations  for  impairment of proved and unproved oil and gas  properties  are
subject to numerous uncertainties  including,  among others, estimates of future
recoverable reserves;  commodity price outlooks;  foreign laws, restrictions and
currency  exchange  rates;  and export and excise  taxes.  Actual  results could
differ from the estimates and assumptions utilized.

     Argentina.  In April 2006,  the Company  sold its  Argentine  assets and is
currently winding-up the affairs associated with its remaining Argentine entity.
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,  the Company used exchange rates of 3.06 pesos
to $1 and 3.03 pesos to $1,  respectively,  to  remeasure  the  peso-denominated
monetary assets and  liabilities of the Company's  Argentine  subsidiaries.  The
Company remains exposed to uncertainties  surrounding the Argentine economic and
political  environment  until the Company  completes (i) the distribution of its
remaining  sales  proceeds  to the United  Sates,  (ii) the  liquidation  of its
remaining Argentine entity and (iii) its obligations under the  indemnifications
and retained obligations related to the divesture of the Argentine assets.

     Cash  equivalents.  Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

     Investments.  Investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities  that have a
readily  determinable  fair value are  classified  as  "trading  securities"  if
management's current intent is to hold them for the near term;  otherwise,  they
are accounted for as  "available-for-sale"  securities.  The Company reevaluates
the  classification  of investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities at each
balance   sheet   date.   The   carrying   value  of  trading   securities   and
available-for-sale  securities  are  adjusted  to fair value as of each  balance
sheet date.

     Unrealized  holding gains are recognized for trading securities in interest
and other income,  and unrealized holding losses are recognized in other expense
during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.

     Unrealized  holding gains and losses are recognized for  available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income (loss) during the periods in which changes in fair value occur.  Realized
gains  and  losses  on the  divestiture  of  available-for-sale  securities  are
determined  using the average cost  method.  The Company had no  investments  in
available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2006 or 2005.

     Investments in  unaffiliated  equity  securities that do not have a readily
determinable  fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost or the
net realizable  value of the investment.  The Company had no significant  equity
security  investments that did not have a readily  determinable fair value as of
December 31, 2006 or 2005.

     Inventories.  Inventories were comprised of $93.7 million and $77.3 million
of materials and supplies and $1.4 million and $2.4 million of commodities as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively.  The Company's materials and supplies
inventory is primarily comprised of oil and gas drilling or repair items such as
tubing, casing, chemicals, operating supplies and ordinary maintenance materials
and parts. The materials and supplies inventory is primarily acquired for use in
future drilling  operations or repair  operations and is carried at the lower of
cost or market,  on a weighted  average  cost basis.  Commodities  inventory  is
carried at the lower of average cost or market, on a first-in,  first-out basis.
Any  impairments  of inventory  are reflected in gain (loss) on  disposition  of
assets in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company's materials and supplies inventory was net of $4.2 million and
$.2 million, respectively, of valuation reserve allowances.

     Oil and gas properties.  The Company utilizes the successful efforts method
of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this  method,  all costs
associated  with  productive  wells  and  nonproductive  development  wells  are
capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical
expenditures are expensed.  The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for
significant  development  projects,  generally  when the  underlying  project is
sanctioned, until such projects are ready for their intended use.

     The Company  generally  does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory
well as an asset  in its  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  for more  than one year
following the completion of drilling unless the  exploratory  well finds oil and
gas reserves in an area  requiring a major capital  expenditure  and both of the
following conditions are met:

                                       72


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


     (i)  The well has  found a sufficient  quantity of reserves  to justify its
          completion as a producing well.

     (ii) The Company is making  sufficient progress  assessing the reserves and
          the economic and operating viability of the project.

     Due to the  capital  intensive  nature  and the  geographical  location  of
certain Alaskan,  deepwater Gulf of Mexico and foreign projects, it may take the
Company longer than one year to evaluate the future potential of the exploration
well and economics  associated  with making a  determination  on its  commercial
viability. In these instances,  the project's feasibility is not contingent upon
price  improvements or advances in technology,  but rather the Company's ongoing
efforts  and  expenditures  related to  accurately  predicting  the  hydrocarbon
recoverability  based on well  information,  gaining access to other  companies'
production,  transportation  or processing  facilities  and/or  getting  partner
approval to drill additional  appraisal wells.  These activities are ongoing and
being pursued constantly.  Consequently,  the Company's  assessment of suspended
exploratory  well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well
has found proved reserves or is  noncommercial  and is impaired.  See Note D for
additional information regarding the Company's suspended exploratory well costs.

     The Company owns interests in seven natural gas processing plants and seven
treating  facilities.  The  Company  operates  five of the  plants and all seven
treating  facilities.  The  Company's  ownership  interests  in the  natural gas
processing plants and treating  facilities is primarily to accommodate  handling
the Company's gas  production and thus are considered a component of the capital
and operating  costs of the respective  fields that they service.  To the extent
that there is excess  capacity  at a plant or  treating  facility,  the  Company
attempts  to  process  third  party gas  volumes  for a fee to keep the plant or
treating  facility at capacity.  All  revenues  and expenses  derived from third
party gas volumes  processed  through  the plants and  treating  facilities  are
reported as components of oil and gas  production  costs.  Third party  revenues
generated  from the plant and  treating  facilities  for the three  years  ended
December 31, 2006,  2005 and 2004 were $38.5  million,  $39.2  million and $32.1
million,  respectively.  Third  party  expenses  attributable  to the plants and
treating  facilities for the same  respective  periods were $6.4 million,  $13.8
million and $11.8  million.  The  capitalized  costs of the plants and  treating
facilities  are included in proved oil and gas properties and are depleted using
the  unit-of-production  method  along with the other  capitalized  costs of the
field that they service.

     Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties  are depleted  using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves.  Costs  of  significant
nonproducing  properties,  wells in the process of being drilled and development
projects are excluded from depletion  until such time as the related  project is
completed and proved reserves are established or, if unsuccessful, impairment is
determined.

     Proceeds from the sales of individual  properties and the capitalized costs
of   individual   properties   sold  or  abandoned  are  credited  and  charged,
respectively,   to  accumulated   depletion,   depreciation  and   amortization.
Generally,  no gain or loss is recognized until the entire  amortization base is
sold.  However,  gain or loss is recognized from the sale of less than an entire
amortization base if the disposition is significant  enough to materially impact
the depletion rate of the remaining properties in the depletion base.

     In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the Company reviews its long-lived  assets
to be held and used, including proved oil and gas properties accounted for under
the successful  efforts method of accounting,  whenever events or  circumstances
indicate  that the  carrying  value of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An
impairment  loss is indicated  if the sum of the  expected  future cash flows is
less than the carrying amount of the assets. In this  circumstance,  the Company
recognizes an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying amount of the
asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset.

     Unproved oil and gas properties are periodically assessed for impairment on
a project-by-project basis. The impairment assessment is affected by the results
of exploration  activities,  commodity price  outlooks,  planned future sales or
expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of potential
reserves  determined by such  evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the
cost invested in each project,  the Company will recognize an impairment loss at
that time by recording an allowance.

                                       73


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Goodwill.  As described in Note C, the Company  recorded  $327.8 million of
goodwill   associated   with  the  merger   with   Evergreen   Resources,   Inc.
("Evergreen").  The  goodwill  was  recorded  to  the  Company's  United  States
reporting  unit. In  accordance  with EITF  Abstract  Issue No.  00-23,  "Issues
Related to the  Accounting for Stock  Compensation  under APB Opinion No. 25 and
FASB  Interpretation  No. 44", the Company has reduced goodwill by $18.0 million
since  September  28,  2004 for tax  benefits  associated  with the  exercise of
fully-vested  stock options assumed in conjunction with the Evergreen merger. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible  Assets",  goodwill
is not amortized to earnings,  but is assessed for impairment whenever events or
circumstances  indicate  that  impairment  of the carrying  value of goodwill is
likely,  but no less often than  annually.  If the carrying value of goodwill is
determined  to be  impaired,  it is  reduced  for  the  impaired  value  with  a
corresponding  charge to pretax earnings in the period in which it is determined
to be impaired.  During the third  quarter of 2006,  the Company  performed  its
annual assessment of impairment of the goodwill and determined that there was no
impairment.

     Other  property,  plant  and  equipment,  net.  Other  property,  plant and
equipment  is  stated  at cost and  primarily  consists  of items  such as heavy
equipment  and  rigs,   furniture  and  fixtures  and  leasehold   improvements.
Depreciation is provided over the estimated  useful life of the assets using the
straight-line  method. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, other property,  plant and
equipment  was net of  accumulated  depreciation  of $145.3  million  and $131.5
million, respectively.

     Asset  retirement  obligations.  The Company  accounts for asset retirement
obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement
Obligations"  ("SFAS 143"). SFAS 143 amended SFAS No. 19, "Financial  Accounting
and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies" to require that the fair value
of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in
which it is incurred if a reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  Under
the  provisions  of  SFAS  143,  asset  retirement   obligations  are  generally
capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long-lived asset.

     In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB  Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for
Conditional  Asset Retirement  Obligations,  an interpretation of FASB Statement
No.  143"  ("FIN  47").  FIN 47  clarifies  that  conditional  asset  retirement
obligations  meet the  definition of liabilities  and should be recognized  when
incurred if their fair values can be reasonably  estimated.  The  interpretation
was adopted by the Company on December 31,  2005.  The adoption of FIN 47 had no
impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

     Derivatives  and hedging.  The Company  follows the  provisions of SFAS No.
133,  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS
133").   SFAS  133  requires  the  accounting   recognition  of  all  derivative
instruments  as  either  assets  or   liabilities  at  fair  value.   Derivative
instruments  that are not hedges  must be  adjusted  to fair value  through  net
income. Under the provisions of SFAS 133, the Company may designate a derivative
instrument as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a
liability or an identified  portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk (a "fair  value  hedge") or as  hedging  the  exposure  to  variability  in
expected  future cash flows that are  attributable to a particular risk (a "cash
flow hedge").  Both at the inception of a hedge and on an ongoing  basis, a fair
value hedge must be  expected to be highly  effective  in  achieving  offsetting
changes in fair value  attributable to the hedged risk during the periods that a
hedge is designated.  Similarly, a cash flow hedge must be expected to be highly
effective in achieving  offsetting  cash flows  attributable  to the hedged risk
during the term of the hedge.  The  expectation of hedge  effectiveness  must be
supported  by matching the  essential  terms of the hedged  asset,  liability or
forecasted  transaction  to the derivative  hedge  contract or by  effectiveness
assessments  using statistical  measurements.  The Company's policy is to assess
hedge effectiveness at the end of each calendar quarter.

     Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments  that are fair value hedges are offset  against  changes in the fair
value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments through net income.
Effective changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are cash flow
hedges are recognized in  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss) - net
deferred hedge losses, net of tax ("AOCI - Hedging") in the stockholders' equity
section of the  Company's  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  until such time as the

                                       74


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

hedged items are recognized in net income.  Ineffective portions of a derivative
instrument's change in fair value are immediately recognized in earnings.

     See  Note  J  for  a  description  of  the  specific  types  of  derivative
transactions in which the Company participates.

     Environmental.  The Company's  environmental  expenditures  are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or  mitigate  or  prevent  future   environmental   contamination  are
capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability is fixed or reliably determinable.

     Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are  recorded  at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate  treasury shares held. During 2006, the Company
retired 22.9 million  treasury shares resulting in a reduction in treasury stock
of $1.0 billion.

     Revenue recognition. The Company does not recognize revenues until they are
realized  or  realizable  and  earned.   Revenues  are  considered  realized  or
realizable and earned when: (i)  persuasive  evidence of an arrangement  exists,
(ii)  delivery has occurred or services have been  rendered,  (iii) the seller's
price  to the  buyer  is  fixed  or  determinable  and  (iv)  collectibility  is
reasonably assured.

     The Company uses the entitlements method of accounting for oil, natural gas
liquid  ("NGL") and gas  revenues.  Sales  proceeds  in excess of the  Company's
entitlement  are included in other  liabilities and the Company's share of sales
taken by others is included  in other  assets in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

     The Company had no material oil or NGL entitlement assets or liabilities as
of December 31, 2006 or 2005.  The  following  table  presents the Company's gas
entitlement  assets and liabilities and their associated  volumes as of December
31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                           December 31,
                                             ----------------------------------------
                                                     2006                  2005
                                             ------------------    ------------------
                                              Amount      MMcf      Amount      MMcf
                                             --------    ------    --------    ------
                                                              ($ in millions)

<S>                                          <C>          <C>      <C>          <C>
       Entitlement assets..............      $   13.0     4,201    $   12.1     4,007
       Entitlement liabilities.........      $    3.9     1,082    $    8.5     7,206
</TABLE>

     Stock-based compensation.  On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No.
123  (revised  2004),  "Share-Based  Payment"  ("SFAS  123(R)")  to account  for
stock-based  compensation.  Among other items, SFAS 123(R) eliminates the use of
the Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees"  ("APB  25"),  intrinsic  value  method of  accounting  and  requires
companies to recognize  the cost of employee  services  received in exchange for
awards of equity  instruments based on the grant date fair value of those awards
in the financial statements. The Company elected to use the modified prospective
method for adoption of SFAS 123(R),  which requires  compensation  expense to be
recorded  for all unvested  stock  options and other  equity-based  compensation
beginning in the first  quarter of  adoption.  For all  unvested  stock  options
outstanding  as of January 1, 2006,  the  previously  measured but  unrecognized
compensation  expense,  based  on the  fair  value  on the  date of  grant,  was
recognized in the Company's  financial  statements over their remaining  vesting
periods,  which  ended in August  2006.  For  equity-based  compensation  awards
granted or modified subsequent to January 1, 2006,  compensation expense,  based
on the fair value on the date of grant,  is being  recognized  in the  Company's
financial   statements  over  the  vesting  period.  The  Company  utilizes  the
Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model to measure the fair value of stock options
and  utilizes  the  stock  price  on the date of  grant  for the  fair  value of
restricted  stock  awards.  Prior to the  adoption of SFAS  123(R),  the Company
followed the  intrinsic  value method in  accordance  with APB 25 to account for
stock options.  Prior period  financial  statements have not been restated.  The
modified  prospective  method  requires the Company to estimate  forfeitures  in

                                       75


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

calculating  the expense  related to stock-based  compensation as opposed to its
prior policy of recognizing  forfeitures as they occurred.  The Company recorded
no cumulative effect as a result of adopting SFAS 123(R).

     Additionally,  under the provisions of SFAS 123(R),  deferred  compensation
recorded  under APB 25  related  to  equity-based  awards  should be  eliminated
against the  appropriate  equity  accounts.  As a result,  upon adoption of SFAS
123(R),  the Company  eliminated $45.8 million of deferred  compensation cost in
stockholders'  equity and reduced a like amount of additional paid-in capital in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded $32.1 million of
compensation  costs for all  stock-based  plans.  The  impact  to net  income of
adopting  SFAS 123(R) was $1.6 million for the year ended  December 31, 2006, or
less than $.02 per diluted  share.  For the year ended  December 31,  2006,  the
adoption impact is comprised of $959 thousand of compensation expense associated
with stock options and $669 thousand of compensation expense associated with the
Company's  Employee  Stock  Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"),  which is a compensatory
plan under the provisions of SFAS 123(R).

     Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 123(R),  the Company's issued shares, as
reflected in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006
and 2005, do not include  1,946,211 shares and 1,756,180  shares,  respectively,
related to unvested restricted stock awards.

     As  of  December  31,  2006,  there  was  approximately  $39.8  million  of
unrecognized  compensation expense related to unvested share-based  compensation
plan awards,  primarily  related to restricted stock awards.  This  compensation
will be recognized on a straight-line  basis over the remaining  vesting periods
of the awards, which is a remaining period of less than three years.

     The following table  illustrates the pro forma effect on net income and net
income  per share as if the  Company  had  applied  the fair  value  recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to stock-based compensation during the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                                    ------------------------
                                                                       2005          2004
                                                                    ----------    ----------
                                                                     (in thousands, except
                                                                       per share amounts)
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>
    Net income, as reported.....................................    $  534,568    $  312,854
    Plus: Stock-based compensation expense included in net
        income for all awards, net of tax (a)...................        17,054         7,939
    Deduct: Stock-based compensation expense determined under
        fair value based method for all awards, net of tax (a)         (19,772)      (13,985)
                                                                    ----------    ----------
    Pro forma net income........................................    $  531,850    $  306,808
                                                                    ==========    ==========
    Net income per share:
        Basic - as reported.....................................    $     3.90    $     2.50
                                                                    ==========    ==========
        Basic - pro forma.......................................    $     3.88    $     2.45
                                                                    ==========    ==========
        Diluted - as reported...................................    $     3.80    $     2.46
                                                                    ==========    ==========
        Diluted - pro forma.....................................    $     3.78    $     2.41
                                                                    ==========    ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  For the years ended  December 31, 2005 and 2004,  stock-based  compensation
     expense  included in net income is net of tax  benefits of $9.8 million and
     $4.6 million,  respectively.  Similarly,  stock-based  compensation expense
     determined  under the fair value based method for the years ended  December
     31, 2005 and 2004 is net of tax benefits of $11.4 million and $8.0 million,
     respectively. See Note P for additional information regarding the Company's
     income taxes.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Foreign currency  translation.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency
for all of the Company's  international  operations except Canada.  Accordingly,
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are remeasured
to U.S.  dollars  at the  exchange  rate in effect at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses  denominated in a foreign  currency are
remeasured  at the average of the exchange  rates that were in effect during the

                                       76


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

period  in which  the  revenues  and costs and  expenses  were  recognized.  The
resulting gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency denominated balances
into U.S.  dollars are recorded in other income or other expense,  respectively.
Nonmonetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in a  foreign  currency  are
remeasured at the historic exchange rates that were in effect when the assets or
liabilities were acquired or incurred.

     The  functional  currency  of  the  Company's  Canadian  operations  is the
Canadian dollar. The financial statements of the Company's Canadian subsidiaries
are  translated  to U.S.  dollars as  follows:  all assets and  liabilities  are
translated  using  the  exchange  rate in  effect  at the end of each  reporting
period;  revenues and costs and expenses are translated using the average of the
exchange  rates that were in effect  during the period in which the revenues and
costs  and  expenses  were  recognized.  The  resulting  gains  or  losses  from
translating   non-U.S.   dollar   denominated   balances  are  recorded  in  the
accompanying  Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the period
through accumulated other comprehensive  income (loss) - cumulative  translation
adjustment.

     The  following  table  presents  the exchange  rates used to translate  the
financial  statements of the Company's Canadian  subsidiaries in the preparation
of the consolidated  financial statements as of and for the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                   December 31,
                                                            --------------------------
                                                             2006      2005      2004
                                                            ------    ------    ------

<S>                                                          <C>       <C>       <C>
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets....    .8577     .8606     .8320
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of
       Operations........................................    .8817     .8279     .7699
</TABLE>

     Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2005 and
2004 amounts in order to conform with the 2006 presentation.  Specifically,  the
Company reduced its exploration  and  abandonments  expense by $39.8 million for
the  year  ended  December  31,  2005,  which  represents   reclassification  of
abandonment costs for the Company's East Cameron facility destroyed by Hurricane
Rita  to  hurricane  activity,  net  expense  on the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statements   of   Operations   and   Consolidated   Statements  of  Cash  Flows.
Additionally,  $18.2 million of unfunded check issuances were  reclassified from
changes  in  accounts  payable  in  operating  cash  flows to  payment  of other
liabilities in net cash flows from financing  activities within the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2005.

     New   accounting   pronouncements.   The  following   discussions   provide
information about new accounting  pronouncements that were issued by FASB during
2006:

     FIN 48. In July 2006, the FASB issued  Interpretation  No. 48,  "Accounting
for  Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). The  Interpretation  clarifies the
accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition  threshold that
a tax  position is required to meet before  being  recognized  in the  financial
statements.  FIN 48  also  provides  guidance  on  measurement,  classification,
interim  accounting  and  disclosure.  FIN  48 is  effective  for  fiscal  years
beginning  after  December 15,  2006.  The Company is  continuing  to assess the
potential impacts of this Interpretation.

     SFAS 157. In  September  2006,  the FASB  issued SFAS No. 157,  "Fair Value
Measures" ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value and enhances disclosures about fair value measures required
under other accounting pronouncements,  but does not change existing guidance as
to whether or not an instrument is carried at fair value.  SFAS 157 is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is continuing to
assess the impact, if any, of SFAS 157.

     SFAS  158.  In  September  2006,  the FASB  issued  SFAS  158,  "Employers'
Accounting for Defined  Benefit Pension and other  Postretirement  Plans" ("SFAS
158").   Under  SFAS  158,  a  business   entity  that   sponsors  one  or  more
single-employer defined benefit plans is required to:

                                       77


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

   o  recognize  the funded  status of a  benefit  plan  in its  balance  sheet,
      measured as the difference between plan assets at fair value (with limited
      exceptions) and the benefit obligation,
   o  recognize as a  component of other  comprehensive income,  net of tax, the
      gains or losses and prior  service costs or credits that  arise during the
      period, but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit
      cost,
   o  measure defined benefit  plan assets and obligations as of the date of the
      employer's balance sheet and
   o  disclose  in the  notes to  financial  statements  additional  information
      about certain  effects on  net periodic benefit  cost for the next  fiscal
      year that arise from  delayed recognition  of the  gains or losses,  prior
      service costs or credits, and transition assets or obligations.

     An employer  with  publicly  traded  securities  is  required to  initially
recognize the funded status of its defined benefit  postretirement  plans and to
provide the required  disclosures  as of the end of the first fiscal year ending
after  December  15,  2006.  The  Company  adopted  the  provisions  of SFAS 158
effective on December 31, 2006.  The Company  previously  recognized  the funded
status of its defined  benefit  postretirement  plans and  currently  recognizes
periodic  changes in its defined benefit  postretirement  plans as components of
service costs in the period of change as allowed by SFAS 158. Consequently,  the
adoption of SFAS 158 did not have a material impact on the Company's  liquidity,
financial  position  or future  results  of  operations.  See Note H of Notes to
Consolidated   Financial   Statements  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and
Supplementary   Data"  for  additional   information   regarding  the  Company's
postretirement plans.

NOTE C.     Acquisitions

     Evergreen  merger.  On September 28, 2004,  Pioneer completed a merger with
Evergreen, with Pioneer being the surviving corporation for accounting purposes.
The  transaction  was accounted for as a purchase of Evergreen by Pioneer.  As a
result, the financial statements for the Company prior to September 28, 2004 are
those of Pioneer only.  The merger with Evergreen was  accomplished  through the
issuance of 25.4 million  shares of Pioneer  common stock and $851.1  million of
cash paid to Evergreen shareholders at closing, net of $12.1 million of acquired
cash. The cash  consideration paid in the merger was financed through borrowings
on the Company's credit facilities.

     The  Company  recorded  $327.8  million  of  goodwill  associated  with the
Evergreen  merger,  which  represented the excess of the purchase  consideration
over the net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.

     Permian  Basin and Onshore Gulf Coast  acquisitions.  During 2006 and 2005,
the Company spent $71.2  million and $167.8  million,  respectively,  to acquire
various working interests primarily in the Spraberry and South Texas areas.

NOTE D.     Exploratory Well Costs

     The Company  capitalizes  exploratory  well costs until a determination  is
made that the well has either found proved reserves or that it is impaired.  The
capitalized  exploratory  well costs are  presented in proved  properties in the
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  If the  exploratory  well  is  determined  to be
impaired, the well costs are charged to expense.



                                       78




<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The following  table reflects the Company's  capitalized  exploratory  well
activity during each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
    Beginning capitalized exploratory well costs...       $  198,291    $  126,472    $  108,986
    Additions to exploratory well costs pending the
      determination of proved reserves.............          451,109       243,272       156,937
    Reclassifications due to determination of proved
      reserves.....................................         (193,480)      (78,334)      (56,639)
    Disposition of wells sold......................          (52,628)           --            --
    Exploratory well costs charged to exploration
      expense......................................         (138,239)      (93,119)      (82,812)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
    Ending capitalized exploratory well costs......       $  265,053    $  198,291    $  126,472
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     The  following  table  provides an aging as of December 31, 2006,  2005 and
2004 of  capitalized  exploratory  well costs based on the date the drilling was
completed  and the  number of wells for which  exploratory  well costs have been
capitalized  for a period  greater than one year since the date the drilling was
completed:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                            (in thousands, except well counts)

<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
    Capitalized exploratory well costs capitalized:
      One year or less.................................   $  126,749    $   84,042    $   35,046
      More than one year..............................       138,304       114,249        91,426
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                          $  265,053    $  198,291    $  126,472
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
    Number of wells with exploratory well costs that
      have been capitalized for a period greater than
      one year.........................................           14            14            10
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     The following table provides the capitalized costs of exploration  projects
that have been  suspended  for more than one year as of December 31, 2006,  2005
and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)

<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
       United States:
         Clipper (a)..................................    $   75,242    $       --    $       --
         Ozona Deep...................................            --        19,423        19,462
         Oooguruk.....................................        52,205        52,205        47,083
         Thunder Hawk.................................            --        25,769            --
         United States - other........................         4,103            --            --
       Canada - other.................................         1,695           805         1,214
       South Africa...................................            --         7,227        14,895
       Tunisia - Anaguid..............................         5,059         8,820         8,772
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
           Total......................................    $  138,304    $  114,249    $   91,426
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Includes $37.0 million of costs incurred in 2006.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       79



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The  following   discussion  describes  the  history  and  status  of  each
significant suspended exploratory project:

     Clipper. During 2005, the Company drilled its first exploratory well on the
Clipper  prospect,  which was a  discovery.  During  2006,  the Company  drilled
additional  wells to determine  the magnitude of the  discovery.  The Company is
currently  evaluating  the plans for  development  of the  discovery,  including
evaluating  sub-sea  tie-back  options to  third-party  production  and handling
facilities in the area.

     Ozona Deep and  Thunder  Hawk.  During  March 2006,  the  Company  sold its
interests in the Ozona Deep and Thunder Hawk properties as part of the Company's
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  divestiture.  See Note N for  additional  information
regarding the Company's  divestiture of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico oil and gas
assets.

     Oooguruk. During 2003, the Company's Alaskan Oooguruk discovery wells found
quantities of oil believed to be commercial.  In 2003, the Company began farm-in
discussions with the owner of undeveloped  discoveries in adjacent acreage given
its  proximity and the potential  cost benefits of a larger scale  project.  The
farm-in was completed during 2004. Along with completing the farm-in  agreement,
Pioneer  obtained  access to  exploration  well and seismic  data to improve the
Company's  understanding  of the potential of the discoveries  without having to
drill  additional  wells.  In late 2004,  the  Company  completed  an  extensive
technical  and economic  evaluation  of the resource  potential  and a front-end
engineering design study ("FEED study") for the area.

     During the first quarter of 2006, the Company sanctioned the development of
the  discovery  and obtained the  necessary  regulatory  approvals.  The Company
installed an offshore gravel drilling and production site during the 2006 winter
construction  season and completed armoring activities during the third quarter.
A  sub-sea  flowline  and  facilities  will be  installed  during  2007 to carry
produced liquids to existing onshore processing  facilities at the Kuparuk River
Unit.  Pioneer plans to drill  approximately  40 horizontal wells to develop the
discovery.  Depending  on  weather  conditions  and  facilities  completion  and
accessibility,  drilling  could begin as early as the fall of 2007.  The Company
estimates first production will occur in 2008.

     South Africa.  During 2001, the Company drilled two South African discovery
wells that found  quantities of gas and  condensate  believed to be  commercial.
From 2002 to 2004,  the  Company  actively  reviewed  the gas  supply and demand
fundamentals in South Africa and had discussions with a  gas-to-liquids  ("GTL")
plant in the area to purchase the condensate and gas.  During 2004, a FEED study
was authorized for the gas development and infrastructure design. The FEED study
was  completed  in early 2005 and based on that  study,  the GTL plant  operator
initiated  purchase  orders for long-lead  time  infrastructure  components.  In
December 2005, the Company announced the final approvals with its partner in the
South Coast gas project to commence the initial development of the project. As a
result,  the Company added 11.4 million Bbls oil equivalent  ("MMBOE") of proved
reserves in 2005 and reduced the suspended exploratory costs by $7.7 million.

     During 2000, the Company drilled two South African exploratory wells in the
Company's  Boomslang  prospect.  One well was  unsuccessful,  but the other well
found  quantities  of  hydrocarbons  believed to be  commercial.  The  Boomslang
discovery was not included in the initial  development  phase of the South Coast
Gas  project.  Boomslang is an oil  discovery  with a  significant  gas cap. The
Company  believes the Boomslang  discovery may  ultimately be developed as a gas
discovery, but commercialization plans have not progressed sufficiently to allow
the Company to continue  to  capitalize  the  exploratory  costs  related to the
discovery.  Accordingly,  the Company  expensed the  Boomslang  discovery in the
fourth quarter of 2006.

     Tunisia - Anaguid.  During 2003, the Company drilled two exploration  wells
on its Anaguid  Block in Tunisia which found  quantities  of condensate  and gas
believed to be  commercial.  During 2004,  the wells were scheduled and approved
for  extended  production  tests.  However,  the  project  operator  delayed the
extended production tests due to issues unrelated to the Company or the project.
During 2005, the project operator, along with the Company, conducted an extended
production  test of one of the two  existing  exploration  wells and  drilled an
offset appraisal well to the other exploration well.

                                       80



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The  results  of the  extended  production  test were  unfavorable  and the
Company expensed $5.1 million  associated with this well in 2005.  However,  the
appraisal well offsetting the second discovery encountered gas and condensate in
a similar horizon to the initial well. The Company has concluded  studies on the
appraisal well with unfavorable  results and expensed $4.2 million in the fourth
quarter of 2006.  Studies on the second  discovery  will  continue to  determine
whether development is economical.

NOTE E.     Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair
values of the Company's financial instruments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                           December 31,
                                                    --------------------------------------------------------
                                                                2006                         2005
                                                    --------------------------    --------------------------
                                                      Carrying         Fair         Carrying        Fair
                                                        Value          Value          Value         Value
                                                    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Net derivative contract liabilities:
  Commodity price hedges.......................     $   (68,228)   $   (68,228)   $  (748,477)   $  (748,477)
  Terminated commodity price hedges............     $  (131,131)   $  (131,131)   $      (870)   $      (870)
Financial assets:
  Trading securities...........................     $    18,582    $    18,582    $    15,237    $    15,237
  Notes receivable due 2008 to 2011............     $    23,607    $    23,607    $     1,429    $     1,429
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
  Line of credit...............................     $  (328,000)   $  (328,000)   $  (900,000)   $  (900,000)
  8 1/4 % senior notes due 2007................     $   (32,081)   $   (32,511)   $   (32,199)   $   (33,477)
  6 1/2 % senior notes due 2008................     $    (3,761)   $    (3,798)   $  (348,714)   $  (356,965)
  5 7/8% senior notes due 2012.................     $    (6,235)   $    (5,903)   $    (6,255)   $    (5,947)
  5 7/8% senior notes due 2016.................     $  (427,588)   $  (497,054)   $  (421,327)   $  (506,590)
  6 7/8% senior notes due 2018.................     $  (449,579)   $  (452,430)   $        --    $         --
  4 3/4 % senior convertible notes due 2021....     $        --    $        --    $  (100,000)   $  (201,225)
  7 1/5% senior notes due 2028.................     $  (249,918)   $  (253,150)   $  (249,917)   $  (265,200)
</TABLE>

     Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other  current  assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

     Commodity price swap and collar contracts,  interest rate swaps and foreign
currency  swap  contracts.  The fair  value of  commodity  price swap and collar
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are estimated from
quotes  provided  by  the  counterparties  to  these  derivative  contracts  and
represent the estimated  amounts that the Company would expect to receive or pay
to settle the  derivative  contracts.  See Note J for a  description  of each of
these derivatives, including whether the derivative contract qualifies for hedge
accounting treatment or is considered a speculative derivative contract.

     Financial   assets.   The  carrying  amounts  of  the  trading   securities
approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.  The fair
value of the notes  receivable  approximates  the carrying value at December 31,
2006 due to the  proximity of the  execution  dates of the notes to December 31.
The current portion of the notes  receivable,  amounting to $5.1 million and $.4
million as of  December  31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively,  is included in other
current assets,  net in the Company's  Consolidated  Balance Sheets. The trading
securities and the noncurrent  portions of the notes  receivable are included in
other assets, net in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     Long-term  debt. The carrying  amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's  corporate  credit  facility  approximates  fair value  because  these
instruments  bear interest at variable market rates.  The fair values of each of
the senior note issuances were determined based on quoted market prices for each
of the issues.  See Note F for  additional  information  regarding the Company's
long-term debt.

                                       81



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

NOTE F.     Long-term Debt

     Long-term  debt,  including  the effects of net deferred  fair value hedges
losses  and  issuance  discounts  and  premiums,   consisted  of  the  following
components at December 31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  December 31,
                                                            -----------------------
                                                               2006         2005
                                                            ----------   ----------
                                                                   (in thousands)
<S>                                                         <C>          <C>
      Outstanding debt principal balances:
        Line of credit..................................    $  328,000   $  900,000
        8 1/4% senior notes due 2007....................        32,075       32,075
        6 1/2% senior notes due 2008....................         3,777      350,000
        5 7/8% senior notes due 2012....................         6,110        6,110
        5 7/8% senior notes due 2016....................       526,875      526,875
        6 7/8% senior notes due 2018....................       450,000           --
        4 3/4% senior convertible notes due 2021........            --      100,000
        7 1/5% senior notes due 2028....................       250,000      250,000
                                                            ----------   ----------
                                                             1,596,837    2,165,060
      Issuance discounts and premiums, net..............       (96,284)    (102,347)
      Net deferred fair value hedge losses..............        (3,391)      (4,301)
                                                            ----------   ----------
      Total long-term debt..............................    $1,497,162   $2,058,412
                                                            ==========   ==========

</TABLE>
     Lines of credit.  The Company has an Amended and Restated 5-Year  Revolving
Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement"),  which originally had a maturity date
in September  2010 unless  extended in  accordance  with the terms of the Credit
Agreement.  The terms of the Credit Agreement provide for initial aggregate loan
commitments  of $1.5  billion,  which may be  increased  to a maximum  aggregate
amount of $1.8 billion if the lenders increase their loan commitments or if loan
commitments  of new financial  institutions  are added to the Credit  Agreement.
Effective September 29, 2006,  participating  lenders extended the maturity date
on $1.395 billion of aggregate loan  commitments  under the Credit  Agreement to
September 2011.

     Borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be in the form of revolving loans
or swing line loans.  Aggregate outstanding swing line loans may not exceed $100
million.  Revolving loans bear interest, at the option of the Company,  based on
(a) a rate per annum equal to the higher of the prime rate  announced  from time
to time by JPMorgan  Chase Bank (8.25 percent per annum at December 31, 2006) or
the weighted average of the rates on overnight  Federal funds  transactions with
members of the Federal  Reserve  System during the last  preceding  business day
(5.17  percent  per annum at  December  31,  2006) plus .5 percent or (b) a base
Eurodollar  rate,  substantially  equal  to LIBOR  (5.33  percent  per  annum at
December 31, 2006),  plus a margin (the "Applicable  Margin") that is determined
by reference  to a grid based on the  Company's  debt rating  (.875  percent per
annum at December 31, 2006).  The Applicable  Margin is increased by .10 percent
to .125 percent per annum,  depending on the Company's  debt  ratings,  if total
borrowings  under the Credit  Agreement  exceed 50 percent of the aggregate loan
commitments.  Swing line loans bear  interest  at a rate per annum  equal to the
"ASK" rate for Federal  funds  periodically  published  by the Dow Jones  Market
Service plus the  Applicable  Margin.  The Company pays  commitment  fees on the
undrawn amounts under the Credit Agreement that are determined by reference to a
grid based on the Company's  debt rating (.175 percent per annum at December 31,
2006).

     As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $153.8 million of undrawn  letters
of credit,  of which $150.2  million were undrawn  commitments  under the Credit
Agreement.  The letters of credit  outstanding  under the Credit  Agreement  are
subject  to a per  annum  fee,  based on a grid of the  Company's  debt  rating,
representing the Company's LIBOR margin (.875 percent at December 31, 2006) plus
..125 percent. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had unused borrowing capacity
of $1.0 billion under the Credit Agreement.

     The Credit Agreement  contains certain financial  covenants,  which include
the (i) maintenance of a ratio of the Company's  earnings before gain or loss on
the  disposition  of  assets,  interest  expense,  income  taxes,  depreciation,
depletion and amortization  expense,  exploration and  abandonments  expense and
other noncash charges and expenses to consolidated  interest expense of at least
3.5 to 1.0;  (ii)  maintenance  of a ratio of total debt to book  capitalization

                                       82


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

less  intangible  assets,  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income and certain
noncash asset  impairments not to exceed .60 to 1.0; and (iii) maintenance of an
annual ratio of the net present value of the Company's oil and gas properties to
total  debt  of at  least  1.50  to 1.0  through  March  2007  and  1.75  to 1.0
thereafter. The lenders may declare any outstanding obligations under the Credit
Agreement  immediately  due and  payable  upon the  occurrence,  and  during the
continuance of, an event of default,  which includes a defined change in control
of the Company.  As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with all
of its debt covenants.

     Senior notes.  During May 2006,  the Company  issued $450 million of 6.875%
notes and received proceeds,  net of issuance discount and underwriting cost, of
$447.4 million.

     The  Company's  senior  notes are  general  unsecured  obligations  ranking
equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured  indebtedness of the
Company  and  are  senior  in  right  of  payment  to all  existing  and  future
subordinated  indebtedness of the Company. The Company is a holding company that
conducts all of its operations through  subsidiaries;  consequently,  the senior
notes are  structurally  subordinated  to all  obligations of its  subsidiaries.
Interest on the Company's senior notes is payable semiannually.

     Senior convertible  notes.  During 2006, holders of all of the $100 million
of 4 3/4% Senior Convertible Notes exercised their conversion rights. Associated
therewith,  the Company paid $79.9 million in cash, issued 2.3 million shares of
common stock and recorded a $22 million increase to stockholders' equity.

     Early  extinguishment of debt. During 2006, the Company  repurchased $346.2
million of its  outstanding  $350  million of 6.50%  senior  notes due 2008 (the
"6.50%  Notes").  The Company  recognized a charge of $8.1 million in the second
quarter of 2006  associated  with the early  extinguishment  of the 6.50% Notes,
which is included in other expense in the accompanying  Consolidated  Statements
of  Operations.  During 2005,  the Company (i) redeemed the remaining  principal
amounts of its  outstanding  9 5/8% senior  notes due 2010 and its 7.50%  senior
notes  due 2012 of $64.0  million  and  $16.2  million,  respectively,  and (ii)
accepted  tenders to purchase for cash $188.4 million in principal amount of its
5 7/8% senior notes due 2012. Consequently,  the Company recognized a charge for
the early  extinguishment  of debt of $26.5 million included in other expense in
the accompanying  Consolidated Statements of Operations on these redemptions and
tenders for 2005.

     Principal  maturities.  Principal  maturities of long-term debt at December
31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>       <C>                                               <C>
          2007.......................................       $    32,075
          2008.......................................       $     3,777
          2009.......................................       $        --
          2010.......................................       $    22,960
          2011.......................................       $   305,040
          Thereafter.................................       $ 1,232,985
</TABLE>


                                       83


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Interest expenses.  The following amounts have been incurred and charged to
interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                           --------------------------------------
                                                              2006          2005          2004
                                                           ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                       (in thousands)

<S>                                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
    Cash payments for interest.........................    $  114,727    $  129,868    $  109,970
    Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums
       on loans........................................         7,133         6,186         3,683
    Accretion of discount on derivative obligations....         2,529            --             --
    Amortization of net deferred hedge (gains) losses
      (see Note J).....................................            14        (4,052)      (19,220)
    Amortization of capitalized loan fees..............         1,366         2,265         2,059
    Kansas ad valorem tax..............................            --            --            65
    Net changes in accruals............................        (6,571)       (7,092)        7,476
                                                           ----------    ----------    ----------
    Interest incurred..................................       119,198       127,175       104,033
    Less capitalized interest..........................       (12,166)       (1,089)       (2,016)
                                                           ----------    ----------    ----------
    Total interest expense.............................    $  107,032    $  126,086    $  102,017
                                                           ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

NOTE G.     Related Party Transactions

     The  Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as  operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general  and  administrative  charges.  Reimbursements  of fees are  recorded as
reductions to general and administrative  expenses in the Company's Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

     The  activities  with  affiliated   partnerships  are  summarized  for  the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------------
                                                           2006          2005          2004
                                                        ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                    (in thousands)

<S>                                                     <C>           <C>           <C>

    Receipt of lease operating and supervision
      charges in accordance with standard industry
      operating agreements..........................    $    1,551    $    1,493     $   1,458
    Reimbursement of general and administrative
      expenses......................................    $      348    $      348     $     193
</TABLE>

NOTE H.     Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

     Deferred  compensation  retirement  plan. In August 1997, the  Compensation
Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  (the  "Board")   approved  a  deferred
compensation  retirement  plan for the officers and certain key employees of the
Company. Each officer and key employee is allowed to contribute up to 25 percent
of their base salary and 100 percent of their  annual  bonus.  The Company  will
provide  a  matching  contribution  of 100  percent  of the  officer's  and  key
employee's  contribution  limited to the first 10 percent of the officer's  base
salary and eight  percent  of the key  employee's  base  salary.  The  Company's
matching  contribution vests  immediately.  A trust fund has been established by
the Company to accumulate the contributions made under this retirement plan. The
Company's matching contributions were $1.3 million, $1.2 million and $.9 million
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

                                       84


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     401(k) plan. The Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. ("Pioneer USA") 401(k)
and Matching Plan (the "401(k) Plan") is a defined contribution plan established
under the Internal Revenue Code Section 401. All regular full-time and part-time
employees of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k) Plan on the
first day of the month following their date of hire. Participants may contribute
an amount of not less than two percent nor more than 30 percent of their  annual
salary into the 401(k) Plan. Matching  contributions are made to the 401(k) Plan
in cash by  Pioneer  USA in  amounts  equal to 200  percent  of a  participant's
contributions  to the 401(k) Plan that are not in excess of five  percent of the
participant's   base   compensation   (the   "Matching   Contribution").    Each
participant's account is credited with the participant's contributions, Matching
Contributions  and allocations of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.  Participants are
fully vested in their account  balances  except for Matching  Contributions  and
their  proportionate  share of 401(k)  Plan  earnings  attributable  to Matching
Contributions,  which  proportionately  vest over a four-year period that begins
with the  participant's  date of hire. During the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, the Company recognized compensation expense of $9.3 million, $8.0
million and $5.4 million, respectively, as a result of Matching Contributions.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

     In May 2006, the Company's  stockholders approved a new Long-Term Incentive
Plan,  which provides for the granting of incentive  awards in the form of stock
options,  stock appreciation  rights,  performance units and restricted stock to
directors,  officers and employees of the Company.  The Long-Term Incentive Plan
provides for the issuance of 4.6 million awards.

     The  following  table  shows  the  number  of  awards  available  under the
Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan at December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>

<S>                                                         <C>
           Approved and authorized awards...............    4,600,000
             Awards issued after May 3, 2006............      (74,549)
                                                           ----------
           Awards available for future grant............    4,525,451
                                                           ==========
</TABLE>

     For the 2006-2007 director year, the Company's  non-employee directors were
offered a choice to  receive  their  annual  fee  retainers  (i) 100  percent in
restricted stock units, (ii) 100 percent in cash or (iii) a combination of 50/50
of cash and restricted stock units. All non-employee  directors also received an
annual equity grant of restricted stock units.

     Stock option awards. In accordance with the Evergreen merger agreement,  on
September  28,  2004,  the  Company  assumed  fully-vested  options to  purchase
2,384,657 shares of the Company's  common stock at various exercise prices,  the
weighted  average price per share of which was $11.18.  The assumed options were
outstanding awards to Evergreen employees when the Evergreen merger occurred.

     During 2004, the Company's stock-based  compensation philosophy shifted its
emphasis from the awarding of stock options to  restricted  stock awards.  There
were no options granted after 2003.

     Restricted  stock  awards.  During 2006,  2005 and 2004 the Company  issued
736,642, 1,411,269 and 630,937, respectively, restricted shares of the Company's
common  stock as  compensation  to  directors,  officers  and  employees  of the
Company.

     During 2004, the Company assumed 214,186 restricted stock units in exchange
for Evergreen  restricted  stock units  outstanding  on September 28, 2004.  The
Company  recorded  $6.0  million of deferred  compensation  for future  expected
service  associated  with  certain of the  restricted  stock units  assumed from
Evergreen.  The deferred  compensation  was amortized as charges to compensation
expense over the periods in which the restrictions on the units lapsed.

                                       85


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Compensation costs. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(R), as
more  fully  described  in Note B, and  eliminated  $45.8  million  of  deferred
compensation  in  stockholders'  equity and reduced a like amount of  additional
paid-in capital in the  Consolidated  Balance Sheets.  Prior to adoption of SFAS
123(R),  the  Company  recorded  $56.2  million  and $19.1  million of  deferred
compensation  associated with restricted  stock awards in  stockholders'  equity
during  2005  and  2004,  respectively.   Such  amounts  will  be  amortized  to
compensation expense over the vesting periods of the awards.

     Adoption  of  SFAS  123(R),  required  the  Company  to  prospectively  (i)
recognize the value of the unvested stock options,  which was approximately $959
thousand and (ii) recognize  compensation  expense associated with the Company's
ESPP. The Company's  recognition  of  compensation  of restricted  stock did not
change upon adoption of SFAS 123(R).

     During  2006,  2005 and 2004,  the Company  recognized  compensation  costs
associated with  stock-based  compensation  of $32.1 million,  $26.9 million and
$12.5 million,  respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Company has unrecognized
unvested  stock-based  compensation costs of approximately $39.8 million,  which
will amortize to earnings over the next three years.

     The following table reflects the outstanding  restricted stock awards as of
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and activity related thereto for the years then
ended:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                           -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    2006                     2005                      2004
                                           ----------------------   -----------------------   -----------------------
                                                         Weighted                  Weighted                 Weighted
                                             Number      Average       Number      Average       Number      Average
                                            Of Shares     Price      Of Shares     Price       Of Shares     Price
                                           ----------   ---------   -----------   ---------   -----------   ---------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>
Restricted stock awards:
  Outstanding at beginning of year....      1,966,223   $   36.90    1,447,987    $   28.46      676,973    $   24.79
  Evergreen awards assumed............             --   $     --            --    $      --      214,186    $   32.58
  Shares granted......................        736,642   $   43.44    1,411,269    $   39.79      630,937    $   31.29
  Shares forfeited....................       (190,538)  $   39.32     (174,046)   $   33.99      (32,174)   $   30.99
  Lapse of restrictions...............       (385,780)  $   34.84     (718,987)   $   26.26      (41,935)   $   31.09
                                           ----------                ---------                 ---------
  Outstanding at end of year..........      2,126,547   $   39.32    1,966,223    $   36.90    1,447,987    $   28.46
                                           ==========                =========                 =========
</TABLE>

       A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, and changes during the years then ended, are presented below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                           -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    2006                     2005                      2004
                                           ----------------------   -----------------------   -----------------------
                                                         Weighted                  Weighted                 Weighted
                                             Number      Average       Number      Average       Number      Average
                                            Of Shares     Price      Of Shares     Price       Of Shares     Price
                                           ----------   ---------   -----------   ---------   -----------   ---------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>
Non-statutory stock options (a):
  Outstanding at beginning of year....      2,685,398    $  20.32     5,180,584   $   18.60     5,274,116   $   20.13
    Evergreen options assumed.........             --    $     --            --   $      --     2,384,657   $   11.18
    Options forfeited.................       (267,851)   $  22.60       (65,190)  $   22.94      (102,890)  $   22.24
    Options exercised.................       (816,052)   $  19.22    (2,429,996)  $   15.95    (2,375,299)  $   14.39
                                            ---------                ----------                ----------
  Outstanding at end of year..........      1,601,495    $  20.50     2,685,398   $   20.32     5,180,584   $   18.60
                                            =========                ==========                ==========
  Exercisable at end of year..........      1,601,495    $  20.50     2,382,714   $   19.74     3,970,996   $   17.08
                                            =========                ==========                ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The Company did not grant any stock options during 2006, 2005 or 2004.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                       86



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The  following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock
options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        Options Outstanding and Exercisable
                         ----------------------------------------------------------------
                             Number             Weighted          Weighted     Intrinsic
                         Outstanding at         Average            Average      Value at
         Range of         December 31,         Remaining          Exercise    December 31,
      Exercise Price          2006          Contractual Life        Price         2006
      --------------     --------------     ----------------     ---------    -----------
                                                                             (in thousands)

<S>      <C>                   <C>             <C>               <C>          <C>
         $5-$11                139,402         2.0 years         $    9.90    $     4,153
         $12-$18               691,611         2.1 years         $   17.50         15,347
         $19-$26               755,483         3.2 years         $   24.81         11,242
         $31-$43                14,999         0.1 years         $   40.31             --
                            ----------                                        -----------
                             1,601,495                                        $    30,742
                            ==========                                        ===========
</TABLE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     The Company has an ESPP that allows eligible employees to annually purchase
the Company's  common stock at a discounted  price.  Officers of the Company are
not eligible to participate in the ESPP.  Contributions  to the ESPP are limited
to 15 percent of an employee's  pay (subject to certain ESPP limits)  during the
eight-month  offering  period.  Participants  in the ESPP purchase the Company's
common stock at a price that is 15 percent  below the closing sales price of the
Company's  common stock on either the first day or the last day of each offering
period, whichever closing sales price is lower.

Postretirement Benefit Obligations

     As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,  the Company had recorded  $19.8  million
and $18.6 million,  respectively, of unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit
obligations,  the current and noncurrent portions of which are included in other
current liabilities and other liabilities and minority interests,  respectively,
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. These obligations are comprised
of five plans of which four  relate to  predecessor  entities  that the  Company
acquired in prior  years.  These plans had no assets as of December  31, 2006 or
2005. Other than the Company's  retirement plan, the participants of these plans
are not current employees of the Company.

     As of December 31, 2006, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations
pertaining  to these plans were  determined  by  independent  actuaries for four
plans representing $15.7 million of unfunded accumulated  postretirement benefit
obligations  and by the  Company  for one  plan  representing  $4.1  million  of
unfunded accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations.  Interest costs at an
annual  rate  of  5.95   percent  of  the  periodic   undiscounted   accumulated
postretirement  benefit  obligations  were  employed  in the  valuations  of the
benefit obligations. Certain of the aforementioned plans provide for medical and
dental cost  subsidies for plan  participants.  Annual  medical cost  escalation
trends of 10 percent in 2007,  declining to five percent in 2012 and thereafter,
and annual dental cost escalation trends of seven percent in 2007,  declining to
five percent in 2011 and  thereafter,  were employed to estimate the accumulated
postretirement  benefit obligations  associated with the medical and dental cost
subsidies.


                                       87



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The  following  table   reconciles   changes  in  the  Company's   unfunded
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations during the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------------
                                                           2006          2005          2004
                                                        ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                    (in thousands)

<S>                                                     <C>           <C>           <C>
Beginning accumulated postretirement benefit
  obligations.......................................    $   18,576    $   15,534    $   15,556
Net benefit payments................................        (1,234)       (1,393)       (1,497)
Service costs.......................................           816           324           258
Net actuarial losses (gains)........................           642         3,211           (32)
Accretion of interest...............................         1,037           900           909
Fair value of Evergreen obligations assumed.........            --            --           340
                                                        ----------    ----------    -----------
Ending accumulated postretirement benefit
  obligations.......................................    $   19,837    $   18,576    $   15,534
                                                        ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     Estimated benefit payments and  service/interest  costs associated with the
plans for the year ending  December 31, 2007 are $1.5 million and $2.2  million,
respectively.

     As  discussed  above in Note B, the Company has adopted the  provisions  of
SFAS 158 effective on December 31, 2006. The Company  previously  recognized the
funded  status  of  its  defined  benefit  postretirement  plans  and  currently
recognizes  periodic  changes in its  defined  benefit  postretirement  plans as
components  of  service  costs in the  period of change as  allowed by SFAS 158.
Consequently,  the  adoption  of SFAS 158 did not have a material  impact on the
Company's liquidity,  financial position or future results of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2006.

NOTE I.     Commitments and Contingencies

     Severance agreements.  The Company has entered into severance and change in
control  agreements with its officers,  subsidiary  company officers and certain
key employees.  The current annual salaries for the parent company officers, the
subsidiary  company  officers and key employees  covered  under such  agreements
total $35.4 million.

     Indemnifications.  The Company has indemnified its directors and certain of
its officers,  employees  and agents with respect to claims and damages  arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

     Legal actions. The Company is party to the legal actions that are described
below. The Company is also party to other  proceedings and claims  incidental to
its business.  While many of these matters  involve  inherent  uncertainty,  the
Company believes that the amount of the liability,  if any,  ultimately incurred
with  respect to such  other  proceedings  and  claims  will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position as a whole or on
its liquidity,  capital  resources or future annual  results of operations.  The
Company will continue to evaluate its litigation matters on a quarter-by-quarter
basis and will  adjust its  litigation  reserves as  appropriate  to reflect its
assessment of the then current status of litigation.

     Alford.  The Company is party to a 1993 class action  lawsuit  filed in the
26th Judicial District Court of Stevens County, Kansas by two classes of royalty
owners,  one for  each  of the  Company's  gathering  systems  connected  to the
Company's  Satanta gas plant.  The  plaintiffs in the case assert that they were
improperly  charged  expenses  (primarily field  compression),  which plaintiffs
allege are a "cost of production,"  and for which the plaintiffs  claim they, as
royalty  owners,  are not  responsible.  Plaintiffs  also  claim  that  they are
entitled  to 50 percent of the value of the helium  extracted  at the  Company's
Satanta gas plant.

     During the third  quarter of 2006,  the  Company  reached an  agreement  to
settle the claims made in the  lawsuit.  Under the terms of the  agreement,  the
Company  agreed to make cash  payments  to settle the  plaintiffs'  claims  with
respect to production  occurring on and before  December 31, 2005. The Company's
portion  of the  cash  payments  is  expected  to be  $32.7  million,  of  which
approximately  $17.0  million was paid during the third  quarter of 2006 and the

                                       88


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

remaining approximately $15.7 million will be paid in the third quarter of 2007.
The Company  also agreed to adjust the manner in which  royalty  payments to the
class members will be calculated for  production  occurring on and after January
1, 2006, which change is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's
liquidity, financial position or future results of operations.

     Final  approval  was received  from the Court on February 9, 2007,  and the
settlement is expected to be final within 60 days of final approval  assuming no
appeals are filed.  If no appeals are made or if any appeals made are  resolved,
it is expected that the settlement will be final in the second quarter of 2007.

     MOSH  Holding.  On April 11,  2005,  the Company and its  principal  United
States subsidiary, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., were named as defendants
in MOSH Holding,  L.P. v Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company;  Pioneer  Natural
Resources USA, Inc.; Woodside Energy (USA) Inc.; and JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA, as
Trustee of the Mesa Offshore Trust,  which is before the Judicial District Court
of Harris  County,  Texas  (334th  Judicial  District).  On  December  8,  2006,
Dagger-Spine   Hedgehog  Corporation   ("Dagger-Spine")   filed  a  Petition  In
Intervention  in the  lawsuit to assert the same  claims as MOSH  Holding,  L.P.
("MHLP"). MHLP and Dagger-Spine (collectively,  "Plaintiffs") are unitholders in
the  Trust,  which  was  created  in  1982  as the  sole  limited  partner  in a
partnership  that holds an  overriding  royalty  interest in certain oil and gas
leases  offshore  Louisiana  and Texas.  The Company owns the  managing  general
partner  interest  in the  partnership.  Plaintiffs  allege  that  the  Company,
together with Woodside  Energy (USA) Inc.  ("Woodside"),  concealed the value of
the royalty interest and worked to terminate the Mesa Offshore Trust prematurely
and to capture for itself and Woodside  profits that belong to the Mesa Offshore
Trust ("MOT"). Plaintiffs also allege breaches of fiduciary duty, misapplication
of trust  property,  common  law  fraud,  gross  negligence,  and  breach of the
conveyance  agreement for the overriding royalty interest.  The relief sought by
the  plaintiffs  includes  monetary and punitive  damages and certain  equitable
relief,  including  an  accounting  of  expenses,  a  setting  aside of  certain
farmouts, and a temporary and permanent injunction.

     The Trustee and the Company have reached a  conditional  settlement  of all
claims in the lawsuit that MOT has or might have against the Company. Plaintiffs
are not signatories to the settlement and they, or other unitholders of MOT, may
comment on or object to the  settlement.  The  settlement  is subject to certain
conditions  and is not final  until  approved  by the court and any  appeals are
resolved. The court has set the settlement review hearing for May 21, 2007.

     Dorchester  Refining  Company  Site. A  subsidiary  of the Company has been
notified by a letter from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality ("TCEQ")
dated August 24, 2005 that the TCEQ considers the subsidiary to be a potentially
responsible  party  with  respect  to  the  Dorchester  Refining  Company  State
Superfund  Site  located  in  Mount  Pleasant,  Texas.  In  connection  with the
acquisition  of oil and gas  assets in 1991,  the  Company  acquired  a group of
companies,  one of which was an entity that had owned a refinery  located at the
Mount Pleasant site from 1977 until 1984.  According to the TCEQ,  this refinery
was  responsible  for releases of  hazardous  substances  into the  environment.
Pursuant to applicable Texas law, the Company's  subsidiary,  which does not own
any  material  assets or  conduct  any  material  operations,  may be subject to
strict,  joint and  several  liability  for the costs of  conducting  a study to
evaluate  potential  remedial  options  and  for the  costs  of  performing  any
remediation  ultimately  required  by the TCEQ.  The  Company  does not know the
nature  and  extent  of  the  alleged  contamination,  the  potential  costs  of
remediation  or the portion,  if any, of such costs that may be allocable to the
Company's  subsidiary;  however,  the Company has noted that there  appear to be
other operators or owners who may share  responsibility for these costs and does
not expect  that any such  additional  liability  will have a  material  adverse
effect on its  consolidated  financial  position as a whole or on its liquidity,
financial position or future annual results of operations.

     Environmental  Protection  Agency  Investigation.  On November 4, 2005, the
Company learned from the U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency that the agency
was  conducting a criminal  investigation  into a 2003 spill that  occurred at a
Company-operated  drilling rig located on an ice island  offshore  Harrison Bay,
Alaska.  The  investigation  is being  conducted  in  conjunction  with the U.S.
Attorney's  Office  for  the  District  of  Alaska.  The  spill  was  previously
investigated by the Alaska  Department of  Environmental  Conservation  ("ADEC")
and,  following  completion of a clean up, the ADEC issued a letter  stating its
determination  that,  at that  time,  the site  did not  pose a threat  to human
health, safety or welfare, or the environment.  The Company is fully cooperating
with the government's investigation.

                                       89


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Argentine  obligations.  The  Company has  provided  the  purchaser  of its
Argentine assets certain  indemnifications  and remains  responsible for certain
contingent  liabilities,  subject to defined  limitations.  The Company does not
currently believe that these obligations,  which primarily pertain to matters of
litigation,  environmental contingencies,  royalty obligations and income taxes,
are probable of having a material impact on its liquidity, financial position or
future results of operations.

     Lease  agreements.  The  Company  leases  offshore  production  facilities,
drilling rigs,  equipment and office facilities under  noncancellable  operating
leases.  Rental expenses  associated  with these operating  leases for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were approximately  $46.8 million,  $64.5
million and $51.8  million,  respectively,  which  includes $8.7 million,  $26.0
million  and  $15.4  million,   respectively,   associated   with   discontinued
operations.  Future minimum lease  commitments  under  noncancellable  operating
leases at December 31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>             <C>                              <C>
                2007........................     $  29,065
                2008........................     $  14,560
                2009........................     $  13,346
                2010........................     $   6,720
                2011........................     $     709
                Thereafter..................     $      --
</TABLE>

     Drilling  commitments.  The Company  periodically  enters into  contractual
arrangements under which the Company is committed to expend funds to drill wells
in the future.  The Company also enters into  agreements to secure  drilling rig
services,  which require the Company to make future minimum  payments to the rig
operators. The Company records drilling commitments in the periods in which well
capital is expended or rig services are provided.

     Transportation  agreements.  Associated  with  the  Evergreen  merger,  the
Company assumed gas transportation  commitments for specified volumes of gas per
year through  2014.  During 2006,  the Company  expanded  these  commitments  to
support   production   increases,   primarily  in  the  Raton  gas  field.   The
transportation   commitments  averaged  approximately  190  million  cubic  feet
("MMcf") of gross gas sales  volumes per day during 2006,  including  associated
fuel commitments. These commitments will average approximately 201 MMcf of gross
gas volumes per day during 2007, decrease to approximately 198 MMcf of gross gas
volumes per day during 2008, and decline  thereafter to approximately 69 MMcf of
gross gas volumes per day during 2013, before terminating in January 2014.

     The Company's Canadian subsidiaries are parties to pipeline  transportation
service  agreements,  with aggregate  remaining terms of approximately 10 years,
whereby  they have  committed to  transport  specified  volumes of gas each year
principally  from  Canada  to a point in  Chicago,  Illinois.  Such gas  volumes
totaled  approximately 86 MMcf of gas per day during 2006 and 78 MMcf of gas per
day during 2005 and 2004,  and are  comprised  of a  significant  portion of the
Company's Canadian net gas production,  augmented with certain volumes purchased
at market prices in Canada.  The committed  volumes to be transported  under the
pipeline  transportation service agreements are approximately 85 MMcf of gas per
day during 2007 and decline to  approximately  75 MMcf of gas per day by the end
of the  commitment  term. The net gas marketing  gains or losses  resulting from
purchasing  third party gas in Canada and selling it in Chicago are  recorded as
other income or other  expense in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statements of
Operations.  Associated with these agreements,  the Company  recognized $2.0 and
$4.1  million of gas  marketing  gains in other  income  during the years  ended
December  31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively,  and $1.2  million of gas  marketing
losses in other expense during the year ended December 31, 2004.

                                       90



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Future minimum  transportation  fees under the Company's gas transportation
commitments at December 31, 2006 are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>               <C>                              <C>
                  2007........................     $   68,630
                  2008........................     $   68,938
                  2009........................     $   68,458
                  2010........................     $   66,749
                  2011........................     $   64,243
                  Thereafter..................     $  170,546
</TABLE>

NOTE J.      Derivative Financial Instruments

     The Company uses  financial  derivative  contracts  to manage  exposures to
commodity price,  interest rate and foreign currency  fluctuations.  The Company
generally does not enter into derivative  financial  instruments for speculative
or trading purposes.  The Company also may enter physical delivery  contracts to
effectively  provide  commodity  price hedges.  Because these  contracts are not
expected  to be net  cash  settled,  they  are  considered  to be  normal  sales
contracts and not  derivatives.  Therefore,  these contracts are not recorded in
the financial statements.

     All  derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at estimated fair value.
Fair value is generally  determined  based on the  difference  between the fixed
contract price and the underlying market price at the determination date, and/or
the value confirmed by the counterparty.  Changes in the fair value of effective
cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of accumulated other  comprehensive
income  (loss),   which  is  later  transferred  to  earnings  when  the  hedged
transaction  occurs.  Changes  in the  fair  value of  derivatives  that are not
designated  as  hedges,  as  well  as  the  ineffective  portion  of  the  hedge
derivatives,  are recorded in earnings. The ineffective portion is calculated as
the  difference  between  the  change in fair  value of the  derivative  and the
estimated change in cash flows from the item hedged.

     Fair value  hedges.  The  Company  monitors  the debt  capital  markets and
interest  rate  trends to  identify  opportunities  to enter into and  terminate
interest rate swap contracts with the objective of reducing costs of capital. As
of  December  31,  2006 and 2005,  the  Company was not a party to any open fair
value hedges.

     As of December 31, 2006, the carrying value of the Company's long-term debt
in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  included  a  $3.4  million
reduction in the carrying  value  attributable  to net deferred  hedge losses on
terminated  fair value  hedges  that are being  amortized  as net  increases  to
interest  expense  over the original  terms of the  terminated  agreements.  The
amortization  of net deferred  hedge losses on  terminated  interest  rate swaps
increased the Company's  reported  interest  expense by $14 thousand  during the
year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to deferred gains amortization,  which
reduced  the  Company's  reported  interest  expense by $4.1  million  and $19.2
million during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

     The  following  table sets forth,  as of December 31, 2006,  the  scheduled
amortization  of net deferred  hedge losses on  terminated  interest rate hedges
(including  terminated  fair value and cash flow hedges) that will be recognized
as increases to the Company's future interest expense:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      Net Deferred Interest Rate Hedge Losses
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                      Fair Value    Cash Flow        Total
                                      ----------    ----------    -----------
                                                  (in thousands)
<S>           <C>                     <C>           <C>           <C>
              2007................    $      231    $       94    $      325
              2008................    $      257    $      114    $      371
              2009................    $      281    $      135    $      416
              2010................    $      307    $      159    $      466
              2011................    $      337    $      184    $      521
              Thereafter..........    $    1,978    $    1,032    $    3,010
</TABLE>

                                       91



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Cash flow hedges.  The Company utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts
to (i) reduce the effect of price  volatility  on the  commodities  the  Company
produces and sells,  (ii) support the  Company's  annual  capital  budgeting and
expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain
capital  projects.  As of December 31, 2006, all of the Company's open commodity
hedges are designated as hedges of Canadian and United States  forecasted sales.
The Company also, from time to time,  utilizes interest rate contracts to reduce
the effect of interest rate volatility on the Company's indebtedness and forward
currency  exchange  agreements  to reduce the effect of U.S.  dollar to Canadian
dollar exchange rate volatility.

     Oil prices.  All material physical sales contracts  governing the Company's
oil production  have been tied directly or indirectly to the New York Mercantile
Exchange  ("NYMEX")  prices.  As of December 31, 2006,  all of the Company's oil
hedges  were  designated  as hedges  of  United  States  forecasted  sales.  The
following table sets forth the volumes hedged in barrels ("Bbl")  underlying the
Company's  outstanding oil hedge contracts and the weighted average NYMEX prices
per Bbl for those contracts as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   First         Second          Third         Fourth       Outstanding
                                  Quarter        Quarter        Quarter        Quarter        Average
                                -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Average daily oil production
   hedged (a):
   2007 - Swap Contracts
    Volume (Bbl)..............        3,689          4,341          5,000          5,000          4,512
    Price per Bbl.............  $     31.63    $     31.47    $     31.35    $     31.35    $     31.44
   2008 - Swap Contracts
    Volume (Bbl)..............        6,500          6,500          6,500          6,500          6,500
    Price per Bbl.............  $     31.19    $     31.19    $     31.19    $     31.19    $     31.19
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Subsequent  to  December  31,  2006,  the  Company  reduced  its oil  hedge
     positions by terminating the following oil swap  contracts:  (i) 4,342 Bbls
     per day of 2007 swap  contracts  with a fixed price of $31.47 per Bbl; (ii)
     2,500 Bbls per day of 2008 swap  contracts with a fixed price of $29.90 per
     Bbl.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The Company reports average oil prices per Bbl including the effects of oil
quality  adjustments,  amortization of deferred  volumetric  production  payment
("VPP") revenue and the net effect of oil hedges. The following table sets forth
(i)  the  Company's  oil  prices  from  continuing  operations,   both  reported
(including  hedge results and amortization of deferred VPP revenue) and realized
(excluding  hedge  results and  amortization  of  deferred  VPP  revenue),  (ii)
amortization of deferred VPP revenue to oil revenue from  continuing  operations
and (iii) the net effect of  settlements of oil price hedges on oil revenue from
continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------------
                                                           2006          2005          2004
                                                        ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>           <C>
Average price reported per Bbl.....................     $    65.51    $    38.70    $    32.56
Average price realized per Bbl.....................     $    63.45    $    53.71    $    39.06
VPP increase to oil revenue (in millions)..........     $    116.1    $       --    $       --
Reduction to oil revenue from hedging activity
  (in millions) (a)................................     $     97.6    $    176.6    $     80.0

<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Excludes  hedge losses of $12.3  million,  $52.0  million and $27.2 million
     attributable  to  discontinued  operations for the years ended December 31,
     2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Natural gas liquids prices.  During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.  There were no
outstanding NGL hedge contracts at December 31, 2006.

                                       92



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Gas prices.  The  Company  employs a policy of hedging a portion of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between  NYMEX  prices and actual  index  prices,  or
based on NYMEX  prices,  if NYMEX  prices are highly  correlated  with the index
price.  As of December 31, 2006, all of the Company's gas hedges were designated
as hedges of United States and Canadian  forecasted  sales.  The following table
sets forth the volumes hedged in million  British  thermal units ("MMBtu") under
outstanding gas hedge contracts and the weighted  average index prices per MMBtu
for those contracts as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    First         Second          Third         Fourth       Outstanding
                                   Quarter        Quarter        Quarter        Quarter        Average
                                ------------    -----------    -----------    -----------    ------------
<S>                             <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Average daily gas  production
   hedged (a):
   2007 - Swap Contracts
    Volume (MMBtu).............       89,841         85,000         85,000         85,000          86,194
    Price per MMBtu............ $       7.97    $      8.18    $      8.18    $      8.18    $       8.13
   2007 - Collar Contracts
    Volume (MMBtu).............       25,000             --             --             --           6,164
    Price per MMBtu............ $9.00-$11.52    $        --    $        --    $        --    $9.00-$11.52
   2008 - Swap Contracts
    Volume (MMBtu).............       15,000         15,000         15,000         15,000          15,000
    Price per MMBtu............ $       8.62    $      8.62    $      8.62    $      8.62    $       8.62
<FN>
- ---------

(a)  Subsequent to December 31, 2006,  the Company  entered into  additional gas
     swap contracts of  approximately  102,192 MMBtu per day at an average price
     of $8.13 per MMBtu for the Company's 2007 production.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The Company reports average gas prices per Mcf including the effects of Btu
content,  gas processing,  shrinkage  adjustments,  amortization of deferred VPP
revenue and the net effect of gas hedges. The following table sets forth (i) the
Company's gas prices from continuing operations,  both reported (including hedge
results and amortization of deferred VPP revenue) and realized  (excluding hedge
results and amortization of deferred VPP revenue), (ii) amortization of deferred
VPP revenue to gas revenue from  continuing  operations and (iii) the net effect
of settlements of gas price hedges on gas revenue from continuing operations for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------------
                                                           2006          2005          2004
                                                        ----------    ----------    ----------

<S>                                                     <C>           <C>           <C>
Average price reported per Mcf......................    $     6.23    $     7.02    $     4.96
Average price realized per Mcf......................    $     6.04    $     7.31    $     5.45
VPP increase to gas revenue (in millions)...........    $     74.2    $     75.8    $       --
Reduction to gas revenue from hedging activity
  (in millions) (a).................................    $     51.4    $    108.3    $     41.9

<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Excludes  hedge losses of $3.4  million,  $94.6  million and $83.8  million
     attributable  to  discontinued  operations  for the year ended December 31,
     2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Interest rate.  During April 2006, the Company entered into costless collar
contracts and  designated  the  contracts as cash flow hedges of the  forecasted
interest  rate risk  associated  with the coupon  rate on the  Company's  6.875%
Notes,  which were issued on May 1, 2006. The Company  terminated these costless
collar  contracts  for a gain of $1.3  million,  which  was  recorded  in AOCI -
Hedging.  The Company did not realize any ineffectiveness in connection with the
costless collar contracts during 2006. See Note F for information  regarding the
6.875% Notes.

                                       93


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     Hedge  ineffectiveness.  The  Company  recognized  ineffectiveness  amounts
related to (i) hedged  volumes that  exceeded  revised  forecasts of  production
volumes due to delays in the start up of production  in certain  fields and (ii)
reduced  correlations between the indexes of the financial hedge derivatives and
the  indexes  of  the  hedged   forecasted   production   for  certain   fields.
Ineffectiveness  can be associated with closed contracts (i.e.  realized) or can
be associated  with open positions (i.e.  unrealized).  The following table sets
forth the hedge ineffectiveness attributable to continuing operations recognized
in the  Consolidated  Statements of Operations  for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------------
                                                   2006          2005          2004
                                                ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                            (in millions)
<S>                                             <C>           <C>           <C>

    Interest and other income.............      $     13.8    $       --    $       --
    Other expense.........................            11.6         (44.2)         (4.2)
                                                ----------    ----------    ----------
      Total  ineffectiveness (a)..........      $     25.4    $    (44.2)   $     (4.2)
                                                ==========    ==========    ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Hedge  ineffectiveness  attributable  to  discontinued  operations was $8.2
     million and $171 thousand during 2005 and 2004, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     AOCI  -  Hedging.  As of  December  31,  2006  and  2005,  AOCI  -  Hedging
represented net deferred losses of $167.2 and $506.6 million,  respectively. The
AOCI - Hedging balance as of December 31, 2006 was comprised of $71.0 million of
net deferred losses on the effective  portions of open cash flow hedges,  $193.7
million of net deferred  losses on terminated  cash flow hedges  (including $1.7
million of net deferred losses on terminated cash flow interest rate hedges) and
$97.5  million of  associated  net  deferred  tax  benefits.  The AOCI - Hedging
balance as of December 31, 2005 was comprised of $767.8  million of net deferred
losses on the effective portions of open cash flow hedges,  $30.0 million of net
deferred  losses on terminated  cash flow hedges  (including $3.2 million of net
deferred losses on terminated cash flow interest rate hedges) and $291.2 million
of associated  net deferred tax benefits.  The decrease in AOCI - Hedging during
the  year  ended   December  31,  2006  was   primarily   attributable   to  the
reclassification  of net  deferred  hedge  losses to net  income as  derivatives
matured and, to a lesser extent,  decreases in future  commodity prices relative
to the  commodity  prices  stipulated in the hedge  contracts.  The net deferred
losses  associated  with open cash flow hedges  remain  subject to market  price
fluctuations until the positions are either settled under the terms of the hedge
contracts  or  terminated  prior  to  settlement.  The net  deferred  losses  on
terminated cash flow hedges are fixed.

     During the year ending  December  31, 2007,  based on current  estimates of
future commodity  prices,  the Company expects to reclassify $5.3 million of net
deferred gains  associated with open commodity  hedges and $106.3 million of net
deferred  losses on terminated  commodity  hedges from AOCI - Hedging to oil and
gas revenues. The Company also expects to reclassify approximately $38.7 million
of net deferred income tax benefits  associated with commodity hedges during the
year ending December 31, 2007 from AOCI - Hedging to income tax benefit.

     Terminated   commodity  hedges.  At  times,  the  Company  terminates  open
commodity  hedge  positions when the underlying  commodity  prices reach a point
that the Company  believes will be the high or low price of the commodity  prior
to the scheduled  settlement  of the open  commodity  position.  This allows the
Company to maximize  gains or  minimize  losses  associated  with the open hedge
positions.  At the time of  termination of the hedges,  the amounts  recorded in
AOCI - Hedging are  maintained  and  amortized to earnings  over the periods the
production was scheduled to occur.

                                       94



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The  following  table sets forth,  as of December 31, 2006,  the  scheduled
amortization of net deferred losses on terminated  commodity hedges that will be
recognized as decreases to the Company's future oil and gas revenues:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                             First       Second        Third       Fourth
                                            Quarter      Quarter      Quarter      Quarter        Total
                                           ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                  (in thousands)

<S>                                        <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
2007 net deferred hedge losses........     $  29,619    $  27,609    $  25,153    $  23,905    $ 106,286
2008 net deferred hedge losses........     $  20,285    $  17,541    $  17,402    $  17,718       72,946
2009 net deferred hedge losses........     $   2,330    $     232    $     230    $     822        3,614
2010 net deferred hedge losses........     $     667    $     620    $     578    $     539        2,404
2011 net deferred hedge losses........     $     873    $     889    $     902    $     907        3,571
2012 net deferred hedge losses........     $     810    $     791    $     783    $     773        3,157
                                                                                               ---------
                                                                                               $ 191,978
                                                                                               =========
</TABLE>

     Non-hedge  derivatives.  During January and April 2005, the Company entered
into  non-hedge  interest rate swaps.  The Company  terminated the interest rate
swaps during  January and April 2005 for an aggregate  net loss of $1.5 million,
which  amount  is  included  in  other  expense  in the  Company's  accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2005.

NOTE K.     Major Customers and Derivative Counterparties

     Sales to major customers.  The Company's share of oil and gas production is
sold to various  purchasers who must be prequalified  under the Company's credit
risk  policies  and  procedures.  The Company  records  allowances  for doubtful
accounts  based on the agings of accounts  receivable  and the general  economic
condition  of its  customers  and,  depending  on facts and  circumstances,  may
require customers to provide collateral or otherwise secure their accounts.  The
Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one  purchaser  would not have an
adverse effect on the ability of the Company to sell its oil and gas production.

     The  following  United  States  customers  individually  accounted  for ten
percent or more of the  consolidated  oil, NGL and gas  revenues,  including the
revenues from discontinued operations and the results of commodity hedges, in at
least one of the years, during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------------
                                                   2006          2005          2004
                                                ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>           <C>
Oneok Resources...........................          12%            6%           3%
Plains Marketing LP.......................          12%            7%           4%
Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc..........          11%            9%           6%
Williams Power Company, Inc...............           4%            9%          14%
</TABLE>

     Derivative  counterparties.  The Company  uses  credit and other  financial
criteria to evaluate the credit  standing of, and to select,  counterparties  to
its derivative  instruments.  Although the Company does not obtain collateral or
otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit
risk is mitigated by the Company's  credit risk policies and  procedures.  As of
December 31, 2006, the Company had no derivative counterparties with significant
credit risks.

                                       95



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

NOTE L.     Asset Retirement Obligations

     The Company's asset retirement  obligations  primarily relate to the future
plugging and abandonment of wells and related  facilities.  The Company does not
provide for a market risk premium  associated with asset retirement  obligations
because a reliable estimate cannot be determined. The Company has no assets that
are legally  restricted for purposes of settling asset  retirement  obligations.
The  following  table  summarizes  the  Company's  asset  retirement  obligation
transactions during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------------
                                                            2006        2005        2004
                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>         <C>

    Beginning asset retirement obligations.............  $ 157,035   $ 120,879   $ 105,036
    New wells placed on production and changes in
      estimates (a)....................................    122,685      57,404       4,591
    Liabilities assumed in acquisitions................        981       3,183      10,488
    Disposition of wells...............................    (44,042)    (23,101)         --
    Liabilities settled................................    (16,219)     (9,508)     (8,562)
    Accretion of discount on continuing operations.....      4,826       4,209       4,130
    Accretion of discount on discontinued operations...        804       3,668       4,080
    Currency translation...............................       (157)        301       1,116
                                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
    Ending asset retirement obligations................  $ 225,913   $ 157,035   $ 120,879
                                                         =========   =========   =========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Includes, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively,  a
     $75.0 million and a $39.8 million  increase in the abandonment  estimate of
     the East Cameron facilities that were destroyed by Hurricane Rita, which is
     reflected in hurricane  activity,  net in the  Consolidated  Statements  of
     Operations.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The Company records the current and noncurrent portions of asset retirement
obligations  in other current  liabilities  and other  liabilities  and minority
interests, respectively, in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NOTE M.     Interest and Other Income

     The following  table provides the components of the Company's  interest and
other income during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                      ---------------------------------
                                                         2006        2005        2004
                                                      ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
    Business interruption insurance claim
      (see Note U).................................   $   7,647   $  14,200   $      --
    Minority interest in subsidiary net loss
      (see Note B).................................       4,892       5,206          --
    Canadian Alliance marketing gain (see Note I)..       2,021       4,127          --
    Interest income................................      15,366       2,177         328
    Sales and other tax refunds....................         645       1,792          --
    Credit card rebate.............................         837         835          --
    Seismic data sales.............................         620         723         172
    Deferred compensation plan income..............         879         500         202
    Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange
      gains (a)....................................         855         236         100
    Derivative ineffectiveness (see Note J)........      13,805          --          --
    Exploration incentive tax credits..............       5,570          --          --
    Other income...................................       5,586       1,735       1,355
                                                     ----------   ---------   ---------
    Total interest and other income................  $   58,723   $  31,531   $   2,157
                                                     ==========   =========   =========


                                       96

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

<FN>
- ---------

(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE N.     Asset Divestitures

     During the years  ended  December  31,  2006,  2005 and 2004,  the  Company
completed asset divestitures for net proceeds of $1.8 billion,  $1.2 billion and
$1.7 million,  respectively.  Associated  therewith,  the Company recorded gains
(losses) on  disposition of assets in continuing  operations of $(7.9)  million,
$59.8 million and $39 thousand  during the years ended  December 31, 2006,  2005
and 2004,  respectively,  and gains of $733.3  million  and  $166.1  million  in
discontinued operations in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The following represent
the significant divestitures:

     Deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and  Argentine  divestitures.  During  2006,  the
Company sold its  interests in certain oil and gas  properties  in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico for net proceeds of $1.2  billion,  resulting in a gain of $726.2
million and its Argentine  assets for net proceeds of $669.6 million,  resulting
in a gain of $10.9  million.  Pursuant to SFAS 144,  the gain and the results of
operations from these assets have been reclassified to discontinued  operations.
See Note V for additional information.

     Volumetric  production  payments.  During 2005, the Company sold three VPPs
for proceeds of $892.6 million.  No gain or loss was recognized.  See Note T for
additional information.

     Canadian and Gulf of Mexico Shelf  divestitures.  During 2005,  the Company
sold its interests in the Martin Creek,  Conroy Black and Lookout Butte areas in
Canada for net proceeds of $197.2 million, resulting in a gain of $138.3 million
and  certain  assets  on the Gulf of  Mexico  shelf  for net  proceeds  of $59.2
million,  resulting in a gain of $27.9  million.  Pursuant to SFAS 144, the gain
and the  results of  operations  from these  assets  have been  reclassified  to
discontinued operations. See Note V for additional information.

     East Texas  divestiture.  During  the year ended  December  31,  2005,  the
Company sold its interests in certain East Texas properties for $25.3 million of
net cash proceeds with no corresponding gain or loss recognized.

     Gabon  divestiture.  In October  2005,  the Company  closed the sale of the
shares in a Gabonese  subsidiary  that owns the  interest in the Olowi block for
$47.9 million of net proceeds.  A gain was recognized  during the fourth quarter
of 2005 of $47.5 million with no associated income tax effect either in Gabon or
the United States.  In addition,  Pioneer  retains the potential,  under certain
circumstances,  to  receive  additional  payments  for  production  from  deeper
reservoirs discovered on the block.


                                       97



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

NOTE O.     Other Expense

       The following table provides the components of the Company's other
expense during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
  Derivative ineffectiveness (see Note J)................ $  (11,566)   $   44,246    $    4,168
  Loss on early extinguishment of debt (see Note F)......      8,076        25,975            --
  Contingency accrual adjustments (see Note I)...........     10,279         9,756        10,866
  Foreign currency remeasurement and exchange losses (a).        580         3,644         1,870
  Noncompete agreement amortization......................      1,670         3,914           798
  Minority interest in subsidiaries' net income
    (see Note B).........................................      2,629         3,482           896
  Postretirement obligation revaluation..................        642         3,211            --
  Bad debt expense.......................................      4,733           452         3,674
  Debt exchange offer costs (see Note F).................         --            --         2,248
  Canadian Alliance marketing losses (see Note I)........         --            --         1,218
  Non-hedge derivative losses............................      6,517         3,860            --
  Other charges..........................................     12,720           897         2,660
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
         Total other expense............................. $   36,280    $   99,437    $   28,398
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The  Company's  operations  in  Argentina,  Canada and Africa  periodically
     recognize  monetary assets and  liabilities in currencies  other than their
     functional  currencies (see Note B for information regarding the functional
     currencies  of  subsidiary  entities).  Associated  therewith,  the Company
     realizes foreign currency remeasurement and transaction gains and losses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE P.     Income Taxes

     The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 109,  "Accounting  for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109").  The Company and its
eligible  subsidiaries  file a  consolidated  United States  federal  income tax
return. Certain subsidiaries are not eligible to be included in the consolidated
United States federal income tax return and separate provisions for income taxes
have been  determined for these entities or groups of entities.  The tax returns
and the amount of taxable  income or loss are subject to  examination  by United
States  federal,  state,  local and  foreign  taxing  authorities.  Current  and
estimated tax payments of $153.2  million,  $41.4 million and $19.2 million were
made during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

     SFAS 109 requires  that the Company  continually  assess both  positive and
negative  evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred
tax  assets  can  be  realized  prior  to  their  expiration.  Pioneer  monitors
Company-specific,  oil and gas  industry  and  worldwide  economic  factors  and
assesses the  likelihood  that the Company's net  operating  loss  carryforwards
("NOLs") and other deferred tax attributes in the United  States,  state,  local
and foreign tax jurisdictions will be utilized prior to their expiration.  As of
December  31,  2006 and 2005,  the  Company's  valuation  allowances  related to
foreign and domestic tax  jurisdictions  were $94.7  million and $95.8  million,
respectively.

     The Company's  effective tax rate on continuing  operations of 44.2 percent
and 44.5 percent for the years ended  December 31, 2006 and 2005,  respectively,
differs from the combined  United  States  federal and state  statutory  rate of
approximately 36.5 percent primarily due to:

   o  foreign tax rates,
   o  adjustments to the deferred tax liability  for changes in enacted tax laws
      and rates, as discussed below,
   o  statutes in  foreign jurisdictions  that differ  from those  in the United
      States,

                                       98


<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


   o  recognition  of $8.4 million  of deferred  tax benefit,  during 2006, as a
      result of conversion of  senior convertible notes  prior to the  Company's
      repayment of the debt principal (see Note F),
   o  recognition  of $7.2  million  of taxes  during 2005  associated  with the
      repatriation of  foreign earnings  pursuant to  the American Jobs Creation
      Act of 2004 ("AJCA") and
   o  expenses for  unsuccessful  well  costs and  associated  acreage  costs in
      foreign locations  where the Company does not expect to receive income tax
      benefits.

     During May 2006,  the State of Texas enacted  legislation  that changed the
existing Texas  franchise tax from a tax based on net income or taxable  capital
to an income tax based on a defined  calculation  of gross  margin  (the  "Texas
margin tax"). Also, during 2006, the Canadian federal and provincial governments
enacted tax rate reductions that will be phased in over several years.  SFAS 109
requires  that  deferred  tax  balances be adjusted to reflect tax rate  changes
during the periods in which the tax rate changes are enacted. The adjustment due
to the  enactment  of the Texas  margin tax and the  Canadian  tax rate  changes
resulted  in a $13.5  million  United  States tax  expense  and a $10.2  million
Canadian tax benefit during the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively.

     In  October  2004,  the AJCA was  signed  into  law.  The AJCA  includes  a
deduction of 85 percent of qualified  foreign earnings that are repatriated,  as
defined  in  the  AJCA.  During  2005,  the  Company   determined  that  it  was
advantageous to apply the provisions of the AJCA to qualified  foreign  earnings
that could be repatriated. The Company formalized repatriation plans in 2005 and
repatriated $322.5 million from Canada, South Africa and Tunisia.  Approximately
$177 million of the repatriated funds qualified for the dividend exclusion.  The
Company is  obligated  by the  provisions  of the AJCA to invest the  qualifying
dividends in the United States within a reasonable period of time.

     Included in the Company's  income tax provision from continuing  operations
for the year ended  December  31, 2005 is the  reversal  of a $26.9  million tax
benefit  recorded in 2004 as a result of the  cancellation of the development of
the Olowi block and the  Company's  decision to exit Gabon.  Reversal of the tax
benefit  was the  result  of  signing  an  agreement  in June  2005 to sell  the
Company's  shares in the subsidiary that owns the interest in the Olowi block to
an unaffiliated buyer, which made it more likely than not that the Company would
not realize the originally recorded tax benefit.  The Company completed the sale
of the Gabonese subsidiary during 2005.

     The  Company's  income  tax  provision  (benefit)  and  amounts  separately
allocated were  attributable to the following items for the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>

  Income from continuing operations.....................  $  136,666    $  155,832    $   63,079
  Income from discontinued operations...................     299,856       209,013       103,280
  Changes in goodwill - tax benefits related to
    stock-based compensation............................      (1,742)       (7,255)       (8,955)
  Changes in stockholders' equity:
    Net deferred hedge gains (losses)...................     193,719      (166,572)      (73,340)
    Tax benefits related to stock-based compensation....      (4,247)      (18,752)       (6,612)
    Translation adjustment..............................       8,421         3,685          (314)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                          $  632,673    $  175,951    $   77,138
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>


                                       99


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The Company's  income tax provision  (benefit)  attributable to income from
continuing  operations  consisted of the following for the years ended  December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
       Current:
         U.S. federal...................................   $ (54,004)   $   13,104    $    2,500
         U.S. state and local...........................         (52)         (254)          602
         Foreign........................................      35,811        37,995        14,463
                                                           ---------    ----------    ----------
                                                             (18,245)       50,845        17,565
                                                           ---------    ----------    ----------
       Deferred:
         U.S. federal...................................     126,223        90,944        45,479
         U.S. state and local...........................      18,438         3,036         1,097
         Foreign........................................      10,250        11,007        (1,062)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                             154,911       104,987        45,514
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                          $  136,666    $  155,832    $   63,079
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     Income from  continuing  operations  before  income  taxes  consists of the
following for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>

         U.S. federal.................................    $  235,049    $  194,993    $  210,786
         Foreign......................................        73,939       155,473       (13,275)
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                          $  308,988    $  350,466    $  197,511
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     Reconciliations  of the United  States  federal  statutory  tax rate to the
Company's  effective  tax rate for  income  from  continuing  operations  are as
follows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                     (in percentages)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>

       U.S. federal statutory tax rate...................      35.0          35.0         35.0
       State income taxes (net of federal benefit).......       1.7           1.1          1.2
       U.S. valuation allowance changes..................       0.3           0.2           --
       Foreign valuation allowances......................       8.8           0.3          7.8
       Rate differential on foreign operations...........       0.5           2.6         14.3
       Change in statutory rates.........................       1.0           0.1           --
       Gabon investment deduction........................        --           7.4        (13.1)
       Gabon tax free book gain..........................        --          (4.7)          --
       Repatriation of foreign earnings..................        --           2.0           --
       Conversion of senior convertible notes............      (2.7)           --           --
       Other.............................................      (0.4)          0.5        (13.3)
                                                            -------       -------      -------
         Consolidated effective tax rate.................      44.2          44.5         31.9
                                                            =======       =======      =======
</TABLE>


                                      100



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The tax  effects of  temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax  liabilities are as follows
as of December 31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       December 31,
                                                                                -------------------------
                                                                                    2006          2005
                                                                                -----------    ----------
                                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                                             <C>           <C>
     Deferred tax assets:
       Net operating loss carryforwards...................................      $   102,251    $  191,314
       Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards.......................               --        10,725
       Net deferred hedge losses..........................................           97,717       291,216
       Asset retirement obligations.......................................           76,509        54,338
       Other..............................................................           99,330        95,073
                                                                                -----------    ----------
         Total deferred tax assets........................................          375,807       642,666
       Valuation allowances...............................................          (94,745)      (95,750)
                                                                                -----------    ----------
         Net deferred tax assets..........................................          281,062       546,916
                                                                                -----------    ----------
     Deferred tax liabilities:
       Oil and gas properties, principally due to differences in basis,
         depletion and the deduction of intangible drilling costs for tax
         purposes.........................................................        1,232,025     1,053,989
       Other..............................................................          138,272       101,378
                                                                                -----------    ----------
         Total deferred tax liabilities...................................        1,370,297     1,155,367
                                                                                -----------    ----------
     Net deferred tax liability...........................................      $(1,089,235)   $( 608,451)
                                                                                ===========    ==========
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 2006,  the Company had NOLs in the United  States,  Canada,
South Africa and other  African  countries  for income tax purposes as set forth
below,  which are  available to offset  future  regular  taxable  income in each
respective tax jurisdiction,  if any. Additionally,  the Company has alternative
minimum tax NOLs ("AMT NOLs") in the United States which are available to reduce
future alternative minimum taxable income, if any. These carryforwards expire as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         U.S.                         South       Other
                                 --------------------     Canada      Africa     African
       Expiration Date              NOL       AMT NOL       NOL         NOL      NOLs (a)
       ---------------           ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                      (in thousands)

<S>    <C>                       <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
       2009...................   $  29,999   $  32,003   $      --   $      --   $      --
       2010...................      49,858      47,854          --          --          --
       2020...................       5,588       5,055          --          --          --
       2021...................          53          --          --          --          --
       2026...................          --          --       6,269          --          --
       Indefinite.............          --          --          --      49,247     118,190
                                 ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                 $  85,498   $  84,912   $   6,269   $  49,247   $ 118,190
                                 =========   =========   =========   =========   =========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The  Company  believes  that it is more  likely  than not that these  other
     African  NOLs will not offset  future  taxable  income  and has  provided a
     valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The  remaining  $85  million of the U.S.  NOLs and AMT NOLs are  subject to
Section 382 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code and will become  available to offset
future regular or alternative  minimum  taxable income over the next four years.
During the years ended December 31, 2006,  2005 and 2004,  the Company  utilized
$409.8 million, $311.6 million and $151.1 million of NOLs, respectively.


                                      101


<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The Company's  income tax provision  (benefit)  attributable to income from
discontinued  operations consisted of the following for the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                                         --------------------------------------
                                                            2006          2005          2004
                                                         ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                     (in thousands)
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
       Current:
         U.S. federal.................................   $  145,622    $    2,437    $       --
         U.S. state and local.........................        1,421           104            --
         Foreign......................................        2,138         4,297         7,723
                                                         ----------     ---------    ----------
                                                            149,181         6,838         7,723
                                                         ----------     ---------    ----------
       Deferred:
         U.S. federal.................................      144,380       153,075        93,243
         U.S. state and local.........................        6,449         6,560         3,996
         Foreign......................................         (154)       42,540        (1,682)
                                                         ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                            150,675       202,175        95,557
                                                         ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                         $  299,856    $  209,013    $  103,280
                                                         ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>
NOTE Q.     Income Per Share From Continuing Operations

     Basic income per share from  continuing  operations is computed by dividing
income from  continuing  operations  by the  weighted  average  number of common
shares  outstanding for the period.  The computation of diluted income per share
from continuing  operations  reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
securities or other  contracts to issue common stock that are dilutive to income
from  continuing  operations  were  exercised or converted  into common stock or
resulted in the  issuance of common  stock that would then share in the earnings
of the Company.

     The following table is a reconciliation of the basic income from continuing
operations  to diluted  income from  continuing  operations  for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>

    Basic income from continuing operations............   $  172,322    $  194,634    $  134,432
    Interest expense on convertible notes, net of tax..        1,903         3,207           802
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
    Diluted income from continuing operations..........   $  174,225    $  197,841    $  135,234
                                                          ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

     The  following  table is a  reconciliation  of the basic  weighted  average
common shares  outstanding to diluted weighted average common shares outstanding
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          --------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
       Weighted average common shares outstanding (a):
         Basic..........................................     124,359       137,110      125,156
         Dilutive common stock options (b)..............         747         1,136        1,218
         Restricted stock awards........................         989           844          529
         Convertible notes dilution (c).................       1,513         2,327          585
                                                           ---------     ---------    ---------
         Diluted........................................     127,608       141,417      127,488
                                                           =========     =========    =========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  During 2005, the Board approved a share repurchase program  authorizing the
     purchase of up to $1 billion of the Company's common stock,  $640.7 million
     of which was completed in 2005 and $345.3 million of which was completed in
     2006.

                                      102


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


(b)  Common  stock  options  to  purchase  30,712  shares of common  stock  were
     outstanding  but not  included in the  computations  of diluted  income per
     share from  continuing  operations for 2004 because the exercise  prices of
     the options were greater than the average market price of the common shares
     and would be anti-dilutive to the computation.

(c)  During  2006,  holders  of  all  of  the  $100  million  of 4  3/4%  Senior
     Convertible Notes exercised their conversion rights.

</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE R.     Geographic Operating Segment Information

     The Company has operations in only one industry segment, that being the oil
and  gas  exploration  and  production   industry;   however,   the  Company  is
organizationally  structured along geographic operating segments or regions. The
Company has reportable continuing operations in the United States, Canada, South
Africa,  Tunisia  and Other.  Other is  primarily  comprised  of  operations  in
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Nigeria.

     During  2006,  the  Company  sold  certain  oil and gas  properties  in the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and all of its  Argentine  assets,  which had carrying
values of $430.6  million and $658.7  million,  respectively,  on their dates of
sale.  During 2005, the Company sold certain  Canadian and United States oil and
gas  properties  having  carrying  values of $58.9  million  and $31.4  million,
respectively,  on their  dates of  sale.  The  results  of  operations  of those
properties have been reclassified as discontinued  operations in accordance with
SFAS 144 and,  aside from costs incurred for oil and gas activities are excluded
from the geographic operating segment information provided below. See Note V for
information regarding the Company's discontinued operations.

     The following  tables provide the Company's  geographic  operating  segment
data required by SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosure  about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information",  as well as results of operations of oil and gas producing
activities  required by SFAS No. 69,  "Disclosures  about Oil and Gas  Producing
Activities"  as of and for the years ended  December  31,  2006,  2005 and 2004.
Geographic  operating  segment  income  tax  benefits   (provisions)  have  been
determined  based on statutory  rates existing in the various tax  jurisdictions
where the Company has oil and gas producing activities. The "Headquarters" table
column  includes  income and  expenses  that are not  routinely  included in the
earnings measures  internally  reported to management on a geographic  operating
segment basis.




                                      103




<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               United                   South                                          Consolidated
                                               States       Canada      Africa    Tunisia     Other     Headquarters      Total
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------   ------------   ------------
                                                                                (in thousands)
<S>                                          <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 2006:
 Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas............................... $1,302,029   $ 123,109   $  99,309   $ 57,602   $     --    $        --   $ 1,582,049
  Interest and other........................         --          --          --         --         --         58,723        58,723
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets,
    net.....................................       (451)         77          --         --         --         (7,517)       (7,891)
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
                                              1,301,578     123,186      99,309     57,602         --         51,206     1,632,881
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................    324,048      49,192      21,795      3,222         --             --       398,257
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..    276,921      44,990       9,455      4,007         --         24,150       359,523
  Exploration and abandonments..............    172,860      13,948       7,516     14,616     55,205             --       264,145
  General and administrative................         --          --          --         --         --        121,830       121,830
  Accretion of discount on asset
    retirement obligations..................         --          --          --         --         --          4,826         4,826
  Interest..................................         --          --          --         --         --        107,032       107,032
  Hurricane activity, net...................     32,000          --          --         --         --             --        32,000
  Other.....................................         --          --          --         --         --         36,280        36,280
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
                                                805,829     108,130      38,766     21,845     55,205        294,118     1,323,893
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations
  before income taxes.......................    495,749      15,056      60,543     35,757    (55,205)      (242,912)      308,988
Income tax benefit (provision)..............   (180,948)     (4,920)    (17,557)   (22,450)        --         89,209      (136,666)
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations.... $  314,801   $  10,136   $  42,986   $ 13,307   $(55,205)   $  (153,703)  $   172,322
                                             ==========   =========   =========   ========   ========    ===========   ===========
Costs incurred for oil and gas
  activities (a)............................ $1,184,280   $ 228,664   $ 131,763   $ 46,149   $ 46,756    $    35,767   $ 1,673,379
                                             ==========   =========   =========   ========   ========    ===========   ===========
Year ended December 31, 2005:
 Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas............................... $1,144,163   $ 114,357   $ 127,470   $ 67,250   $     --    $        --   $ 1,453,240
  Interest and other........................        --           --          --         --         --         31,531        31,531
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets,
    net.....................................     12,114        (221)         --         --     47,532            402        59,827
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
                                              1,156,277     114,136     127,470     67,250     47,532         31,933     1,544,598
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................    277,297      36,725      28,354      4,063         --             --       346,439
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..    219,045      31,469      24,494      4,758         --         20,178       299,944
  Impairment of long-lived assets...........         --          --          --         --        644             --           644
  Exploration and abandonments..............     97,126       9,545       1,211     10,898     44,543             --       163,323
  General and administrative................         --          --          --         --         --        114,237       114,237
  Accretion of discount on asset
    retirement obligations..................         --          --          --         --         --          4,209         4,209
  Interest..................................         --          --          --         --         --        126,086       126,086
  Hurricane activity, net...................     39,813          --          --         --         --             --        39,813
  Other.....................................         --          --          --         --         --         99,437        99,437
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
                                                633,281      77,739      54,059     19,719     45,187        364,147     1,194,132
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations
  before income taxes.......................    522,996      36,397      73,411     47,531      2,345       (332,214)      350,466
Income tax benefit (provision)..............   (190,894)    (13,285)    (21,289)   (32,422)        --        102,058      (155,832)
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------    -----------   -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations.... $  332,102   $  23,112   $  52,122   $ 15,109   $  2,345    $  (230,156)  $   194,634
                                             ==========   =========   =========   ========   ========    ===========   ===========
Costs incurred for oil and gas
  activities (a)............................ $  903,390   $ 131,237   $  18,541   $ 21,317   $ 75,411    $   129,640   $ 1,279,536
                                             ==========   =========   =========   ========   ========    ===========   ===========
<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Costs incurred for Headquarters represents Argentine cost incurred prior to
     divestment.
</FN>
</TABLE>


                                      104



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               United                   South                                          Consolidated
                                               States       Canada      Africa    Tunisia     Other     Headquarters      Total
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   --------   ------------   ------------
                                                                                (in thousands)
<S>                                          <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 2004:
 Revenues and other income:
  Oil and gas............................... $  799,241   $  50,447   $ 129,856   $  33,064  $     --    $       --    $ 1,012,608
  Interest and other........................         --          --          --          --        --         2,157          2,157
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets,
    net.....................................         51        (252)         --          --        --           240             39
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------  --------    ----------    -----------
                                                799,292      50,195     129,856      33,064        --         2,397      1,014,804
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------  --------    ----------    -----------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production....................    174,583      18,810      28,478       3,032        --            --        224,903
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..    149,282      22,551      44,091       3,744        --        11,930        231,598
  Impairment of long-lived assets...........         --          --          --          --    39,684            --         39,684
  Exploration and abandonments..............     55,010      19,062         530       2,042    36,727            --        113,371
  General and administrative................         --          --          --          --        --        73,192         73,192
  Accretion of discount on asset
    retirement obligations..................         --          --          --          --        --         4,130          4,130
  Interest..................................         --          --          --          --        --       102,017        102,017
  Other.....................................         --          --          --          --        --        28,398         28,398
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------  --------    ----------    -----------
                                                378,875      60,423      73,099       8,818    76,411       219,667        817,293
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------  --------    ----------    -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations
  before income taxes.......................    420,417     (10,228)     56,757      24,246   (76,411)     (217,270)       197,511
Income tax benefit (provision)..............   (153,452)      3,861     (17,027)    (12,124)       --       115,663        (63,079)
                                             ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------  --------    ----------    -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations.... $  266,965   $  (6,367)  $  39,730   $  12,122  $(76,411)   $ (101,607)   $   134,432
                                             ==========   =========   =========   =========  ========    ==========    ===========
Costs incurred for oil and gas
  activities (a)............................ $2,876,185   $ 120,626   $   9,473   $  17,015  $ 48,418    $  102,452    $ 3,174,169
                                             ==========   =========   =========   =========  ========    ==========    ===========
<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Costs incurred for Headquarters represents Argentine cost incurred prior to
     divestment.

</FN>
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     December 31,
                                                       ---------------------------------------
                                                           2006          2005          2004
                                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>           <C>
     Total Assets:
       United States..............................     $ 6,395,046   $ 5,899,637   $ 5,460,708
       Argentina..................................           2,444       735,191       708,391
       Canada.....................................         547,012       363,773       316,124
       South Africa...............................         176,789        64,071        74,250
       Tunisia....................................          72,142        59,125        37,924
       Other......................................          41,238        47,288        10,899
       Headquarters...............................         120,728       160,149       125,191
                                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
     Total consolidated assets....................     $ 7,355,399   $ 7,329,234   $ 6,733,487
                                                       ===========   ===========   ===========
</TABLE>

NOTE S.     Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties

     During October 2004, the Company  concluded that a $39.7 million charge for
impairment  was  required  under  SFAS  144  for its  Gabonese  Olowi  field  as
development  of the  discovery  was canceled.  Due to  significant  increases in
projected field  development  costs,  primarily due to increases in steel costs,
the project did not offer competitive returns. The Olowi field was the Company's
only  Gabonese  investment.  During 2005,  the Company  recorded an  incremental
impairment  charge of $644  thousand  to  eliminate  the  carrying  value of the
Company's Gabonese Olowi field.

NOTE T.     Volumetric Production Payments

     During  2005,  the Company  sold 27.8 MMBOE of proved  reserves by means of
three  VPP  agreements  for  net  proceeds  of  $892.6  million,  including  the
assignment  of  the  Company's   obligations  under  certain   derivative  hedge

                                      105


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004



agreements.  Proceeds from the VPPs were  initially  used to reduce  outstanding
indebtedness.  The  first  VPP  sold  58 Bcf of gas  volumes  over  an  expected
five-year  term that began in February  2005.  The second VPP sold 10.8  million
barrels of oil ("MMBbls") of oil volumes over an expected  seven-year  term that
began in  January  2006.  The  third  VPP sold  6.0 Bcf of gas  volumes  over an
expected 32-month term that began in May 2005 and 6.2 MMBbls of oil volumes over
an expected five-year term that began in January 2006.

     The Company's VPPs represent  limited-term  overriding royalty interests in
oil and gas reserves  which:  (i) entitle the  purchaser  to receive  production
volumes over a period of time from specific lease  interests;  (ii) are free and
clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures;  (iii)
are nonrecourse to the Company (i.e.,  the  purchaser's  only recourse is to the
assets  acquired);  (iv)  transfer  title to the  purchaser;  and (v)  allow the
Company to retain  the assets  after the VPPs  volumetric  quantities  have been
delivered.

     Under SFAS No.  19,  "Financial  Accounting  and  Reporting  by Oil and Gas
Producing  Companies,"  a VPP is  considered  a sale of  proved  reserves.  As a
result,  the Company (i) removed the proved  reserves  associated with the VPPs;
(ii)  recognized the VPP proceeds as deferred  revenue which are being amortized
on a  unit-of-production  basis to oil and gas  revenues  over the  terms of the
VPPs; (iii) retained  responsibility for 100 percent of the production costs and
capital costs related to VPP interests; and (iv) no longer recognizes production
associated with the VPP volumes.

     The  following  table  provides  information  about  the  deferred  revenue
carrying values of the Company's VPPs:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       Gas          Oil         Total
                                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                               (in thousands)

<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>
Deferred revenue at December 31, 2005..........    $  249,323   $  605,515   $  854,838
Less 2006 amortization.........................       (74,235)    (116,092)    (190,327)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ----------
  Deferred revenue at December 31, 2006........    $  175,088   $  489,423   $  664,511
                                                   ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

     The  above  deferred  revenue  amounts  will be  recognized  in oil and gas
revenues in the Consolidated  Statements of Operations as noted below,  assuming
the related VPP production volumes are delivered as scheduled (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>                <C>                              <C>
                   2007........................     $  181,232
                   2008........................        158,138
                   2009........................        147,906
                   2010........................         90,215
                   2011........................         44,951
                   2012........................         42,069
                                                    ----------
                                                    $  664,511
                                                    ==========
</TABLE>

NOTE U.     Insurance Claims

     Hurricane Ivan.  During September 2004, the Company  sustained damages as a
result of  Hurricane  Ivan at its  Devils  Tower  and  Canyon  Express  platform
facilities in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  The damages delayed  scheduled well
completions and interrupted production during the second half of 2004 and during
the first half of 2005. The Company maintains  business  interruption  insurance
coverage for such circumstances.  During 2004 and 2005, the Company filed claims
with its insurance  providers for its estimated losses associated with Hurricane
Ivan.

     Based on a  settlement  agreement  between the  Company  and the  insurance
providers,  the  Company's  recoverable  business  interruption  loss related to
Hurricane  Ivan was $67.0 million.  The Company  recorded $7.6 million and $59.4
million  of  the  claims  in  2004  and  2005,  respectively,   in  income  from
discontinued   operations  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated   Statements  of
Operations.

                                      106


<PAGE>




                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


     Fain Plant. During May 2005, the Company sustained damages as a result of a
fire at its Fain gas plant in the West Panhandle field. The damages  interrupted
production  from  mid-May  through  mid-July  of 2005.  The  Company  maintained
business   interruption  and  physical  damage   insurance   coverage  for  such
circumstances.  The  Company  recognized  a total of $17.9  million in  business
interruption   recoveries  and  $4.4  million  in  physical  damage   recoveries
associated with the Fain gas plant fire. The Company recognized $14.2 million of
the business  interruption  recoveries in 2005 and the remaining $3.7 million in
2006,  which  is  included  in other  income  in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

     Hurricanes  Katrina and Rita. During August and September 2005, the Company
sustained  damages  as a  result  of  Hurricanes  Katrina  and  Rita at  various
facilities in the Gulf of Mexico. Other than the East Cameron facility discussed
further  below,  the damages to the facilities  were covered by physical  damage
insurance.

     The Company filed a business interruption claim with its insurance provider
related  to its  Devils  Tower  field  resulting  from  its  inability  to  sell
production as a result of damages to  third-party  facilities.  During 2006, the
Company settled its business  interruption claim with its insurance provider for
$18.5 million,  which is included in income from discontinued  operations in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     As a result of Hurricane Rita, the Company's East Cameron facility, located
in the Gulf of Mexico  shelf,  was  destroyed  and the Company  does not plan to
rebuild the  facility  based on the  economics  of the field.  During the fourth
quarter of 2006,  the  Company's  application  to "reef  in-place" a substantial
portion  of the East  Cameron  debris  was  denied.  As a  result,  the  Company
currently  estimates that it will cost approximately $119 million to reclaim and
abandon the East Cameron facility.  The estimate to reclaim and abandon the East
Cameron  facility  is based upon an  analysis  and fee  proposal  prepared  by a
third-party engineering firm for the majority of the work and an estimate by the
Company for the remainder. During 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded additional
abandonment obligation charges of $75.0 million and $39.8 million, respectively,
which  amounts  are  included in  hurricane  activity,  net in the  accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operations to reclaim and abandon the
East Cameron facilities began in January 2007 and the Company expects to incur a
substantial portion of the costs in 2007.

     The  $119  million  estimate  to  reclaim  and  abandon  the  East  Cameron
facilities  contains a number of assumptions  that could cause the ultimate cost
to be higher or lower as there are many  uncertainties when working offshore and
underwater with damaged equipment and wellbores.  The Company currently believes
costs could range from $119 million to $175 million;  however,  at this point no
better  estimate than any other amount within the range can be determined,  thus
the Company has recorded the estimated provision of $119 million.

     The Company has filed a claim with its  insurance  providers  regarding the
loss at East Cameron.  Under the Company's insurance policies,  the East Cameron
facility had the  following  coverages:  (a) $14 million of  scheduled  property
value for the  platform,  (b) $4  million  of  scheduled  business  interruption
insurance  after  a  deductible   waiting  period,  (c)  $100  million  of  well
restoration  and safety,  in total,  for all assets per  occurrence and (d) $400
million for debris removal coverage for all assets per occurrence.

     In  December  2005,  the  Company  received  the $14  million of  scheduled
property value for the East Cameron assets and recognized a gain of $9.7 million
associated   therewith.   The  Company  received  the  $4  million  of  business
interruption recoveries in 2006, which is reflected in interest and other income
in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statements of Operations.  During the fourth
quarter of 2006,  the Company  recorded  estimated  insurance  recoveries of $43
million,  which  is  reflected  in  other  current  assets  in the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance Sheet and in hurricane  activity,  net in the accompanying
Consolidated  Statements of Operations,  related to the estimated  costs for the
debris removal portion of the claim as the Company  believes that it is probable
that it will be successful in asserting  coverage  under the debris removal part
of its insurance  coverage.  At the present,  no recoveries  have been reflected
related to the well  restoration and safety  coverages as the Company is working
to  resolve  coverage  issues  regarding  coverage  under  this  section  of the
insurance  policies.  Overall,  the  Company  ultimately  expects a  substantial
portion of the loss to be covered by insurance.

                                      107



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

NOTE V.     Discontinued Operations

     During  2005 and 2006,  the Company  sold its  interests  in the  following
significant oil and gas assets:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Country           Description of Assets          Date Divested     Net Proceeds       Gain
   -------           ---------------------          -------------     ------------     --------
                                                                             (in millions)
<S>                  <C>                            <C>               <C>              <C>
   Canada            Martin Creek, Conroy Black
                     and Lookout Butte fields       May 2005          $   197.2        $  138.3

   United States     Two Gulf of Mexico shelf       August 2005       $    59.2        $   27.9
                     fields

   United States     Deepwater Gulf of Mexico       March 2006        $ 1,156.9 (a)    $  726.2
                     fields

   Argentina         Argentine assets               April 2006        $   669.6        $   10.9

<FN>
- -----------

(a)  Net  proceeds  do not  reflect  the cash  payment  of  $164.3  million  for
     terminated hedges associated with the deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Pursuant to SFAS 144, the Company has  reflected  the results of operations
of the above divestitures as discontinued operations, rather than as a component
of continuing  operations.  The following table represents the components of the
Company's  discontinued  operations for the years ended December 31, 2006,  2005
and 2004:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                          ---------------------------------------
                                                             2006          2005          2004
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
                                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
  Revenues and other income:
    Oil and gas........................................   $  199,317    $   806,347    $  820,055
    Interest and other.................................       23,217         65,519        11,918
    Gain on disposition of assets (a)..................      733,259        166,088            --
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
                                                             955,793      1,037,954       831,973
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production.............................       31,323        116,638       120,601
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization (a).......       37,327        279,286       343,277
    Exploration and abandonments (a)...................        7,327         63,855        68,318
    General and administrative.........................        9,266         10,486         7,336
    Accretion of discount on asset retirement
      obligations (a)..................................          804          3,668         4,080
    Interest...........................................          460          1,700         1,370
    Other..............................................        2,021         13,374         5,289
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
                                                              88,528        489,007       550,271
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
  Income from discontinued operations before
    income taxes.......................................      867,265        548,947       281,702
  Income tax provision:
    Current............................................      149,181          6,838         7,723
    Deferred (a).......................................      150,675        202,175        95,557
                                                          ----------    -----------    ----------
  Income from discontinued operations..................   $  567,409    $   339,934    $  178,422
                                                          ==========    ===========    ==========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  Represents the significant  noncash  components of discontinued  operations
     included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                      108



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Capitalized Costs
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              December 31,
                                                                      ---------------------------
                                                                          2006            2005
                                                                      ------------    ------------
                                                                             (in thousands)
<S>                                                                   <C>             <C>
    Oil and gas properties:
     Proved........................................................   $  7,967,708    $  8,499,253
     Unproved......................................................        210,344         313,881
                                                                      ------------    ------------
     Capitalized costs for oil and gas properties..................      8,178,052       8,813,134
     Less accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization.....     (1,895,408)     (2,577,946)
                                                                      ------------    ------------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties..............   $  6,282,644    $  6,235,188
                                                                      ============    ============
</TABLE>

Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities (a)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Property
                                                 Acquisition Costs                                     Total
                                                --------------------    Exploration   Development      Costs
                                                Proved      Unproved       Costs         Costs       Incurred
                                              ----------   ---------    -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
 Year Ended December 31, 2006:
  United States...........................    $   78,318   $ 109,321    $  296,301    $   700,340   $ 1,184,280
  Argentina...............................            --           2        10,223         25,542        35,767
  Canada..................................            --      19,932       103,245        105,487       228,664
  South Africa............................            --          --           288        131,475       131,763
  Tunisia.................................            --       5,000        40,813            336        46,149
  Other...................................            --      10,584        36,172             --        46,756
                                              ----------   ---------    ----------    -----------   -----------
  Total...................................    $   78,318   $ 144,839    $  487,042    $   963,180   $ 1,673,379
                                              ==========   =========    ==========    ===========   ===========
 Year Ended December 31, 2005:
  United States...........................    $  170,827   $  60,731    $  217,723        454,109   $   903,390
  Argentina...............................            --         512        36,878         92,250       129,640
  Canada..................................         2,593       7,344        43,437         77,863       131,237
  South Africa............................            --         259           755         17,527        18,541
  Tunisia.................................            --          --        18,395          2,922        21,317
  Other...................................            --      30,664        44,456            291        75,411
                                              ----------   ---------    ----------    -----------   -----------
  Total...................................    $  173,420   $  99,510    $  361,644    $   644,962   $ 1,279,536
                                              ==========   =========    ==========    ===========   ===========
 Year Ended December 31, 2004:
  United States...........................    $2,220,813   $ 301,856    $  127,338    $   226,178   $ 2,876,185
  Argentina...............................            --          --        49,745         52,707       102,452
  Canada..................................        50,542      20,921        33,406         15,757       120,626
  South Africa............................            --          --           737          8,736         9,473
  Tunisia.................................            --       6,558         5,761          4,696        17,015
  Other...................................            --      11,680        26,434         10,304        48,418
                                              ----------   ---------    ----------    -----------   -----------
  Total...................................    $2,271,355   $ 341,015    $  243,421    $   318,378   $ 3,174,169
                                              ==========   =========    ==========    ===========   ===========
<FN>
- ----------

     (a) The costs  incurred for oil and gas producing  activities  includes the
following amounts of asset retirement obligations:
</FN>
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Year Ended December 31,
                                        ------------------------------------
                                           2006         2005         2004
                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                   (in thousands)

<S>                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
Proved property acquisition costs.      $      981   $    3,183   $   10,488
Exploration costs.................           3,376           --            --
Development costs.................          41,111       16,055        4,591
                                        ----------   ----------   ----------
     Total........................      $   45,468   $   19,238   $   15,079
                                        ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

                                      109

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Results of Operations

     Information  about the  Company's  results  of  operations  for oil and gas
producing  activities by geographic  operating segment is presented in Note R of
the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

     The estimates of the  Company's  proved oil and gas reserves as of December
31,  2006,  2005 and 2004,  which are located in the United  States,  Argentina,
Canada,  South Africa and  Tunisia,  were based on  evaluations  prepared by the
Company's engineers and audited by independent  petroleum engineers with respect
to the Company's major  properties and prepared by the Company's  engineers with
respect to all other  properties.  Reserves were  estimated in  accordance  with
guidelines  established by the United States Securities and Exchange  Commission
and the FASB,  which require that reserve  estimates be prepared  under existing
economic  and  operating  conditions  with  no  provision  for  price  and  cost
escalations except by contractual arrangements. The Company reports all reserves
held  under  production  sharing  arrangements  and  concessions  utilizing  the
"economic  interest"  method,  which excludes the host country's share of proved
reserves.  Estimated  quantities for production  sharing  arrangements  reported
under the "economic  interest"  method are subject to fluctuations in the prices
of oil and gas and  recoverable  operating  expenses and capital costs. If costs
remain stable, reserve quantities  attributable to recovery of costs will change
inversely to changes in commodity  prices.  The reserve estimates as of December
31, 2006,  2005 and 2004 utilized  respective  oil prices of $60.54,  $59.62 and
$41.96 per Bbl (reflecting  adjustments for oil quality),  respective NGL prices
of $29.82,  $36.34 and $29.12 per Bbl, and respective gas prices of $5.13, $6.36
and $4.76 per Mcf (reflecting  adjustments  for Btu content,  gas processing and
shrinkage).

     Oil  and  gas   reserve   quantity   estimates   are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs.  The Company  emphasizes  that proved  reserve  estimates are  inherently
imprecise and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of
currently  producing oil and gas  properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are
expected to change as additional information becomes available in the future.

     The  following  table  provides a rollforward  of total proved  reserves by
geographic  area and in total for the years ended  December 31,  2006,  2005 and
2004, as well as proved developed reserves by geographic area and in total as of
the beginning and end of each respective year. Oil and NGL volumes are expressed
in MBbls,  gas volumes are  expressed in MMcf and total volumes are expressed in
thousands of barrels of oil equivalent ("MBOE").


                                      110



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             2006                            2005                                2004
                                -----------------------------   -------------------------------   ---------------------------------
                                 Oil &                            Oil &                             Oil &
                                 NGLs       Gas                   NGLs        Gas                   NGLs        Gas
                                (MBbls)   (MMcf)(a)     MBOE     (MBbls)   (MMcf)(a)      MBOE     (MBbls)   (MMcf)(a)      MBOE
                               --------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------   ----------   ---------
<S>                            <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>
 Total Proved Reserves:
 UNITED STATES
 Balance, January 1..........  385,771    2,750,856    844,247   363,257   3,000,335     863,313   362,751    1,553,976     621,747
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................   (7,467)     (10,664)    (9,244)   (5,471)   (141,473)    (29,049)    4,671       25,764       8,965
 Purchases of
 minerals-in-place...........   41,825       52,308     50,543    65,800      83,179      79,663    11,803    1,571,053     273,646
 Extensions and discoveries..   11,948      136,712     34,733       225     103,616      17,494     1,017       56,690      10,465
 Production (b)..............  (14,091)    (134,445)   (36,499)  (16,311)   (197,391)    (49,210)  (16,974)    (200,598)    (50,407)
 Sales of minerals-in-place..  (11,261)    (108,806)   (29,395)  (21,729)    (97,410)    (37,964)      (11)      (6,550)     (1,103)
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ----------
 Balance, December 31........  406,725    2,685,961    854,385   385,771   2,750,856     844,247   363,257    3,000,335     863,313
 ARGENTINA
 Balance, January 1..........   34,024      404,323    101,411    33,168     560,374     126,564    33,469      549,856     125,112
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................     (306)      (2,043)      (646)    2,060    (137,640)    (20,881)   (3,040)     (61,483)    (13,287)
 Extensions and discoveries..      135        4,576        898     2,334      31,606       7,602     6,428      116,526      25,849
 Production (b)..............   (1,072)     (16,025)    (3,743)   (3,538)    (50,017)    (11,874)   (3,689)     (44,525)    (11,110)
 Sales of minerals-in-place..  (32,781)    (390,831)   (97,920)       --          --          --        --           --          --
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........       --           --         --    34,024     404,323     101,411    33,168      560,374     126,564
 CANADA
 Balance, January 1..........    2,423      130,514     24,175     4,095     119,869      24,073     2,407       93,829      18,045
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................     (159)      (7,953)    (1,485)      434      15,887       3,082       710        8,580       2,140
 Purchases of
 minerals-in-place...........       --           --         --        --         292          49       823       22,127       4,511
 Extensions and discoveries..      217       66,801     11,351       652      55,130       9,840       541       10,656       2,317
 Production (b)..............     (282)     (15,853)    (2,924)     (311)    (15,665)     (2,922)     (386)     (15,323)     (2,940)
 Sales of minerals-in-place..       --           --         --    (2,447)    (44,999)     (9,947)       --           --          --
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........    2,199      173,509     31,117     2,423     130,514      24,175     4,095      119,869      24,073
 SOUTH AFRICA
 Balance, January 1..........    3,055       60,395     13,121     3,419          --       3,419     5,546           --       5,546
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................    1,521          116      1,541       694          --         694     1,302           --       1,302
 Extensions and discoveries..       --           --         --     1,347      60,395      11,413        --           --          --
 Production (b)..............   (1,506)          --     (1,506)   (2,405)         --      (2,405)   (3,429)          --      (3,429)
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........    3,070       60,511     13,156     3,055      60,395      13,121     3,419           --       3,419
 TUNISIA
 Balance, January 1..........    3,769           --      3,769     4,852          --       4,852     2,018           --       2,018
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................    1,579           59      1,588      (510)         --        (510)    3,177           --       3,177
 Extensions and discoveries..      500        8,223      1,870       696          --         696       502           --         502
 Production (b)..............     (871)        (436)      (943)   (1,269)         --      (1,269)     (845)          --        (845)
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........    4,977        7,846      6,284     3,769          --       3,769     4,852           --       4,852
 GABON
 Balance, January 1..........       --           --         --        --          --          --    16,590           --      16,590
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................       --           --         --        --          --          --   (16,590)          --     (16,590)
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........       --           --         --        --          --          --        --           --          --
 TOTAL
 Balance, January 1..........  429,042    3,346,088    986,723   408,791   3,680,578   1,022,221   422,781    2,197,661     789,058
 Revisions of previous
 estimates...................   (4,832)     (20,485)    (8,246)   (2,793)   (263,226)    (46,664)   (9,770)     (27,139)    (14,293)
 Purchases of
 minerals-in-place...........   41,825       52,308     50,543    65,800      83,471      79,712    12,626    1,593,180     278,157
 Extensions and discoveries..   12,800      216,312     48,852     5,254     250,747      47,045     8,488      183,872      39,133
 Production (b)..............                                    (23,834)   (263,073)    (67,680)              (260,446)    (68,731)
                               (17,822)    (166,759)   (45,615)                                    (25,323)
 Sales of minerals-in-place..  (44,042)    (499,637)  (127,315)  (24,176)   (142,409)    (47,911)      (11)      (6,550)     (1,103)
                               -------    ---------    -------   -------   ---------   ---------   -------    ---------   ---------
 Balance, December 31........  416,971    2,927,827    904,942   429,042   3,346,088     986,723   408,791    3,680,578   1,022,221
                               =======    =========    =======   =======   =========   =========   =======    =========   =========
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  The proved gas  reserves as of December  31,  2006,  2005 and 2004  include
     316,528 MMcf, 306,303 MMcf and 271,667 MMcf, respectively, of gas that will
     be  produced  and  utilized as field  fuel.  Field fuel is gas  consumed to
     operate  field  equipment  (primarily  compressors)  prior to the gas being
     delivered to a sales point.

(b)  Production  for 2006,  2005 and 2004  includes  approximately  17,364 MMcf,
     14,452 MMcf and 9,605 MMcf of field  fuel,  respectively.  Also,  for 2006,
     2005 and 2004,  production includes 6,811 MBOE, 28,273 MBOE and 33,136 MBOE
     of  production  associated  with  discontinued  operations.  See Note V for
     additional information.

</FN>
</TABLE>
                                      111


<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              2006                           2005                              2004
                                 ------------------------------   -----------------------------   ------------------------------
                                    Oil &                           Oil &                           Oil &
                                    NGLs        Gas                 NGLs        Gas                 NGLs       Gas
                                   (MBbls)     (MMcf)      MBOE    (MBbls)     (MMcf)     MBOE     (MBbls)    (MMcf)      MBOE
                                 ---------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
<S>                              <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>
 Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States................    210,680   1,875,866   523,324   223,749   2,045,275   564,628   209,349   1,202,264   409,727
  Argentina....................     20,844     282,815    67,980    20,565     320,616    74,001    21,149     352,660    79,926
  Canada.......................      2,202      99,025    18,706     3,849     107,547    21,773     2,312      86,500    16,728
  South Africa.................      1,708          --     1,708     3,419          --     3,419     5,546          --     5,546
  Tunisia......................      3,769          --     3,769     4,852          --     4,852     1,271          --     1,271
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Balance, January 1............    239,203   2,257,706   615,487   256,434   2,473,438   668,673   239,627   1,641,424   513,198
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======

  United States................    211,814   1,805,974   512,809   210,680   1,875,866   523,324   223,749   2,045,275   564,628
  Argentina....................         --          --        --    20,844     282,815    67,980    20,565     320,616    74,001
  Canada.......................      2,053     117,672    21,665     2,202      99,025    18,706     3,849     107,547    21,773
  South Africa.................      1,822          --     1,822     1,708          --     1,708     3,419          --     3,419
  Tunisia......................      4,977       7,846     6,285     3,769          --     3,769     4,852          --     4,852
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   -------
 Balance, December 31..........    220,666   1,931,492   542,581   239,203   2,257,706   615,487   256,434   2,473,438   668,673
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   =======
</TABLE>

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

     The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed by
applying  year-end  prices of oil and gas (with  consideration  of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate of ten  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  undiscounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil and gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the  difference.  The  discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  do not
include the effects of the  Company's  commodity  hedging  contracts.  Utilizing
December 31, 2006  commodity  prices held  constant  over each hedge  contract's
term, the net present value of the Company's hedge obligations,  less associated
estimated  income  taxes and  discounted  at ten  percent,  was a  liability  of
approximately $82 million at December 31, 2006.

     Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like  those  shown  below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.


                                      112



<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

     The following tables provide the standardized  measure of discounted future
cash flows by  geographic  area and in total for the years  ended  December  31,
2006,  2005 and 2004,  as well as a roll  forward  in total for each  respective
year:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 December 31,
                                                                -----------------------------------------
                                                                    2006            2005          2004
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                              (in thousands)
<S>                                                             <C>            <C>            <C>
    UNITED STATES
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $ 32,162,975   $ 37,171,750   $28,373,520
     Future production costs................................     (10,605,170)   (10,911,204)   (8,232,530)
     Future development costs...............................      (3,746,920)    (2,757,072)   (1,829,937)
     Future income tax expense..............................      (5,695,788)    (7,552,644)   (5,612,935)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                  12,115,097     15,950,830    12,698,118
     10% annual discount factor.............................      (7,925,926)    (9,872,066)   (7,116,815)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $  4,189,171   $  6,078,764   $ 5,581,303
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    ARGENTINA
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $         --   $  2,256,468   $ 1,747,737
     Future production costs................................              --       (366,362)     (289,742)
     Future development costs...............................              --       (353,182)     (234,309)
     Future income tax expense..............................              --       (282,661)     (221,733)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                          --      1,254,263     1,001,953
     10% annual discount factor.............................              --       (446,366)     (354,661)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $         --   $    807,897   $   647,292
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    CANADA
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $  1,054,264   $  1,062,258   $   889,940
     Future production costs................................        (399,248)      (404,891)     (286,197)
     Future development costs...............................        (115,721)       (46,312)      (40,023)
     Future income tax expense..............................         (69,693)      (166,333)      (96,431)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                     469,602        444,722       467,289
     10% annual discount factor.............................        (200,313)      (190,655)     (190,822)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $    269,289   $    254,067   $   276,467
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    SOUTH AFRICA
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $    509,081   $    503,499   $   140,059
     Future production costs................................         (82,989)       (56,987)      (61,845)
     Future development costs...............................        (165,318)      (248,005)      (13,252)
     Future income tax expense..............................         (58,870)       (18,510)           --
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                     201,904        179,997        64,962
     10% annual discount factor.............................         (58,182)       (70,453)       (2,150)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $    143,722   $    109,544   $    62,812
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    TUNISIA
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $    329,773   $    214,982   $   193,032
     Future production costs................................         (47,116)        (9,164)      (13,536)
     Future development costs...............................         (16,265)        (2,700)       (1,245)
     Future income tax expense..............................        (148,361)      (121,675)      (81,680)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                     118,031         81,443        96,571
     10% annual discount factor.............................         (31,224)       (34,818)      (21,370)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $     86,807   $     46,625   $    75,201
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
    TOTAL
    Oil and gas producing activities:
     Future cash inflows....................................    $ 34,056,093   $ 41,208,957   $31,344,288
     Future production costs................................     (11,134,523)   (11,748,608)   (8,883,850)
     Future development costs (a)...........................      (4,044,224)    (3,407,271)   (2,118,766)
     Future income tax expense..............................      (5,972,712)    (8,141,823)   (6,012,779)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                                  12,904,634     17,911,255    14,328,893
     10% annual discount factor.............................      (8,215,645)   (10,614,358)   (7,685,818)
                                                                ------------   ------------   -----------
    Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows....    $  4,688,989   $  7,296,897   $ 6,643,075
                                                                ============   ============   ===========
<FN>
- ---------

(a)  Includes $324.1 million,  $357.5 million and $258.1 million of undiscounted
     future  asset  retirement  expenditures  estimated as of December 31, 2006,
     2005 and 2004, respectively,  using current estimates of future abandonment
     costs.  See Note L for  corresponding  information  regarding the Company's
     discounted asset retirement obligations.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                      113


<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                             ------------------------------------------
                                                                 2006           2005            2004
                                                             ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                                           (in thousands)

<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
 Oil and gas sales, net of production costs.............     $ (1,516,503)  $ (2,227,267)  $ (1,719,990)
 Net changes in prices and production costs.............       (1,921,270)     3,932,683       2,082,706
 Extensions and discoveries.............................          413,200        459,251         302,794
 Development costs incurred during the period...........          672,572        446,978         249,890
 Sales of  minerals-in-place............................       (1,926,423)    (1,492,864)        (14,222)
 Purchases of minerals-in-place.........................          280,475        645,315       2,058,195
 Revisions of estimated future development costs........       (1,041,343)      (907,229)       (447,828)
 Revisions of previous quantity estimates...............          (38,837)      (595,873)        140,950
 Accretion of discount..................................          895,455        908,047         644,238
 Changes in production rates, timing and other..........          486,328         78,880        (167,400)
                                                             ------------   ------------   -------------
 Change in present value of future net revenues.........       (3,696,346)     1,247,921       3,129,333
 Net change in present value of future income taxes.....        1,088,438       (594,099)     (1,069,511)
                                                             ------------   ------------   -------------
                                                               (2,607,908)       653,822       2,059,822
 Balance, beginning of year.............................        7,296,897      6,643,075       4,583,253
                                                             ------------   ------------   -------------
 Balance, end of year...................................     $  4,688,989   $  7,296,897   $   6,643,075
                                                             ============   ============   =============
</TABLE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Results

     The following table provides selected  quarterly  financial results for the
years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         Quarter
                                                      ---------------------------------------------
                                                        First       Second      Third      Fourth
                                                      ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                          (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
 Year ended December 31, 2006:
  Oil and gas revenues............................... $ 379,468   $ 407,570   $ 418,106   $ 376,905
  Total revenues..................................... $ 396,506   $ 413,908   $ 432,627   $ 389,840
  Total costs and expenses........................... $ 376,756   $ 297,815   $ 312,031   $ 337,291
  Net income......................................... $ 543,207   $  88,039   $  80,799   $  27,686
  Net income per share:
   Basic............................................. $    4.28   $     .70   $     .65   $     .23
   Diluted........................................... $    4.28   $     .69   $     .64   $     .22
 Year ended December 31, 2005:
  Oil and gas revenues............................... $ 323,826   $ 320,337   $ 389,679   $ 419,398
  Total revenues..................................... $ 327,988   $ 332,477   $ 397,938   $ 486,195
  Total costs and expenses........................... $ 278,355   $ 256,363   $ 318,988   $ 340,426
  Net income......................................... $  84,657   $ 185,559   $ 123,573   $ 140,779
  Net income per share:
   Basic............................................. $     .59   $    1.32   $     .90   $    1.11
   Diluted........................................... $     .58   $    1.28   $     .88   $    1.08
</TABLE>

     During  March and April 2006,  the  Company  sold all of its  interests  in
certain oil and gas properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and its Argentine
assets,  respectively.  During May and August  2005,  the Company  sold  certain
Canadian and United  States Gulf of Mexico  shelf  assets,  respectively.  These
divestitures  qualified  as  discontinued  operations  pursuant  to SFAS 144. In
accordance with SFAS 144, the Company reclassified the results of operations and
gains  on the  sales  of the  divested  assets  from  continuing  operations  to
discontinued  operations in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.
See  Note  V of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for  additional
information  regarding these  divestitures  that gave rise to the adjustments in
the tables above.


                                      114




<PAGE>





ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. The Company's management,
with  the  participation  of  its  principal  executive  officer  and  principal
financial  officer,  have  evaluated,  as required by Rule  13a-15(b)  under the
Exchange Act, the Company's  disclosure  controls and  procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this Report.
Based  on  that  evaluation,  the  principal  executive  officer  and  principal
financial  officer  concluded  that the design and  operation  of the  Company's
disclosure  controls and procedures  are effective in ensuring that  information
required to be  disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits
under the Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized and reported  within
the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.

     Changes in internal  control over financial  reporting.  There have been no
changes in the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting (as defined
in Rule  13a-15(f)  under the Exchange Act) that  occurred  during the Company's
last fiscal quarter that have  materially  affected or are reasonably  likely to
materially affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

        MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     The  management  of  the  Company  is  responsible  for   establishing  and
maintaining  adequate internal control over financial  reporting.  The Company's
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is a process  designed  under the
supervision of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of the Company's financial  statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

     As of December  31, 2006,  management  assessed  the  effectiveness  of the
Company's  internal  control over financial  reporting based on the criteria for
effective  internal  control over financial  reporting  established in "Internal
Control  --  Integrated  Framework",  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway  Commission.  Based on the assessment,  management
determined that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on those criteria.

     Ernst & Young LLP, the independent  registered  public accounting firm that
audited the  consolidated  financial  statements of the Company included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K,  has issued an  attestation  report on  management's
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of December  31,  2006.  The report,  which  expresses  unqualified
opinions on management's  assessment and on the  effectiveness  of the Company's
internal  control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2006, is included
in this  Item  under  the  heading  "Report  of  Independent  Registered  Public
Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting".


                                      115



<PAGE>


                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
          ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

     We have  audited  management's  assessment,  included  in the  accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial  Reporting,  that Pioneer
Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries (the "Company")  maintained effective
internal  control over  financial  reporting  as of December 31, 2006,  based on
criteria  established in Internal Control -- Integrated  Framework issued by the
Committee of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway  Commission  (the "COSO
criteria").  The Company's  management is responsible for maintaining  effective
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  and  for  its  assessment  of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial  reporting.  Our responsibility
is to  express  an  opinion  on  management's  assessment  and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting based
on our audit.

     We  conducted  our audit in  accordance  with the  standards  of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and  perform  the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether
effective  internal  control over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all
material  respects.  Our audit included  obtaining an  understanding of internal
control over financial reporting,  evaluating management's  assessment,  testing
and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control,  and
performing   such  other   procedures   as  we   considered   necessary  in  the
circumstances.  We believe that our audit  provides a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

     A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

     Because  of its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial
reporting  may not prevent or detect  misstatements.  Also,  projections  of any
evaluation  of  effectiveness  to future  periods  are  subject to the risk that
controls may become  inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

     In  our  opinion,  management's  assessment  that  the  Company  maintained
effective internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2006, is
fairly stated, in all material  respects,  based on the COSO criteria.  Also, in
our  opinion,  the  Company  maintained,  in all  material  respects,  effective
internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the
COSO criteria.

     We also have  audited,  in  accordance  with the  standards  of the  Public
Company  Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated  balance
sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated  statements
of operations,  stockholders'  equity,  cash flows and comprehensive  income for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 of the Company and
our report dated February 19, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

                                                               Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas
February 19, 2007


                                      116



<PAGE>



ITEM 9B.     OTHER INFORMATION

     None

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

     The information  required in response to this item will be set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held during May 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information  required in response to this item will be set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held during May 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
             AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans

     The following  table  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2006:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                     Number of Securities
                                                                                                   Remaining Available for
                                                                                                    Future Issuance Under
                                              Number of Securities to                             Equity Compensation Plans
                                              be Issued Upon Exercise      Weighted Average         (Excluding Securities
                                                   of Outstanding          Exercise Price of          Reflected in First
                                                    Options (a)           Outstanding Options            Column) (b)
                                              -----------------------     -------------------     -------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                         <C>                     <C>
   Equity compensation plans approved by
     security holders (c):
     Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
       2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan.......                  --               $         --                 4,525,451
       Long-Term Incentive Plan............           1,464,609               $      20.99                        --
       Employee Stock Purchase Plan........                  --               $         --                   469,527
     Predecessor plans.....................             136,886               $      14.39                        --
                                                   ------------                                         ------------
                                                      1,601,495                                            4,994,978
                                                   ============                                         ============
<FN>
- ----------

(a)  There are no  outstanding  warrants  or  equity  rights  awarded  under the
     Company's  equity   compensation  plans.  The  securities  do  not  include
     restricted stock awarded under the Company's previous  Long-Term  Incentive
     Plan and the 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").

(b)  In May 2006,  the  stockholders  of the Company  approved  the Plan,  which
     provides for the issuance of up to 4.6 million  shares of common stock.  No
     additional awards may be made under the prior Long-Term Incentive Plan. The
     number of remaining  securities  available  for future  issuance  under the
     Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan is based on the original  authorized
     issuance of 750,000  shares less 280,473  cumulative  shares issued through
     December 31, 2006. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included in "Item 8.  Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data" for a
     description of each of the Company's equity compensation plans.

(c) All equity compensation plans have been approved by security holders.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     The  remaining  information  required  in response to this item will be set
forth in the Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  for the annual  meeting of
stockholders to be held during May 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.



                                      117


<PAGE>


ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
             INDEPENDENCE

     The information  required in response to this item will be set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held during May 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

     The information  required in response to this item will be set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held during May 2007 and is incorporated herein by reference.











                                      118



<PAGE>



                                     PART IV

ITEM 15.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)  Listing of Financial Statements

Financial Statements

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are included
in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

Report of Independent Registered Pubic Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years Ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Unaudited Supplementary Information

(b)  Exhibits

     The exhibits to this Report required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(c) are
listed below and in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(c)  Financial Statement Schedules

     No financial  statement  schedules are required to be filed as part of this
Report or they are inapplicable.




                                      119



<PAGE>

Exhibits

 Exhibit
 Number                            Description
- --------       ----------------------------------------------------------------
   2.1    --   Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between  Pioneer as Seller and
               Marubeni    Offshore   Production   (USA)   Inc.   as   Purchaser
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  2.1  to  the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 28, 2006).
   3.1    --   Amended and Restated  Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1 to  the  Company's
               Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-4,  dated  June  27,  1997,
               Registration No. 333-26951).
   3.2    --   Amended and  Restated   Bylaws of  the Company  (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 3.1 to  the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, dated November 17, 2006, File No. 1-13245).
   4.1    --   Form of Certificate of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of
               the  Company  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1 to the
               Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4,  dated  June 27,
               1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
   4.2    --   Rights  Agreement  dated July 24, 2001,  between  the Company and
               Continental  Stock  Transfer &  Trust  Company,  as  Rights Agent
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to  the  Company's
               Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File  No. 1-13245, filed with
               the SEC on July 24, 2001).
   4.3    --   Amendment No. 1 to  Rights  Agreement, dated  as of May 22, 2006,
               between  the  Company   and  Continental  Stock  Transfer & Trust
               Company (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment
               No. 1 the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 8-A/A,  File
               No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2006).
   4.4    --   Certificate  of  Designation  of  Series A  Junior  Participating
               Preferred  Stock  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  A to
               Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
               File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
   4.5    --   Indenture  dated April 12, 1995,  between  Pioneer USA (successor
               to Parker & Parsley  Petroleum Company  ("Parker & Parsley")) and
               The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee
               (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
               Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  dated  April 12,  1995,  File No.
               1-10695).
   4.6    --   First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 7, 1997,  among
               Parker & Parsley,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  trustee,  and
               Pioneer USA, with respect  to the indenture  identified  above as
               Exhibit  4.5  (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 10.5 to the
               Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  quarter ended
               September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).
   4.7    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of December  30,  1997,
               among Pioneer USA, Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. and The Chase  Manhattan
               Bank,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture  identified
               above as  Exhibit  4.5   (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit
               10.17 to  the  Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
   4.8    --   Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as  of  December 30, 1997,
               among  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.  (as  successor  to  Pioneer USA),
               Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. and The  Chase Manhattan Bank,  as trustee,
               with respect  to the indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 4.5
               (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  10.18 to the   Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on January 2, 1998).
   4.9    --   Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  December 30, 1997,
               among  Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc. (as  successor to  Pioneer NewSub1,
               Inc., as successor to Pioneer USA), the Company,  Pioneer USA and
               The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the
               indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.5  (incorporated  by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.19 to the  Company's  Current  Report on
               Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on  January 2,
               1998).
  4.10    --   Indenture dated  January 13,  1998,  between  the Company and The
               Bank of  New York,  as  trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
               Form 8-K,  File No.  1-13245,  filed with  the SEC on January 14,
               1998).
  4.11    --   First  Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 1998, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of  New York,  as trustee,  with  respect  to  the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
               Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245,  filed with the SEC on January 14,
               1998).
  4.12    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of April 11, 2000, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of  New York,  as trustee,  with  respect  to  the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended March 31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).

                                      120


<PAGE>


  4.13    --   Third Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  April 30, 2002, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of New York,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 10.4 to the  Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
  4.14    --   Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of July 15, 2004, among
               the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee, with respect to
               the indenture  identified above as  Exhibit 4.10 (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
  4.15    --   Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 15, 2004, among the
               Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The Bank
               of  New  York,  as  trustee,  with  respect   to  the   indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 99.2 to the  Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K, File
               No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
  4.16    --   Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of  May 1, 2006, among the
               Company, Pioneer  Natural Resources USA, Inc. and The Bank of New
               York  Trust  Company,   N.A.,  as  Trustee,  with  respect to the
               indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.10  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report  on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 4, 2006).
  4.17    --   Indenture  dated  as of  March  10,  2004,  among  Evergreen  and
               Wachovia Bank,  National  Association,  as  trustee,  relating to
               Evergreen's   5.875%   Senior   Subordinated   Notes   due   2012
               (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to   Evergreen's
               Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended   March 31,
               2004, File No. 1-13171, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2004).
  4.18    --   First Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  September 28,  2004,
               among  Pioneer  Evergreen  Properties,   LLC  (as   successor  to
               Evergreen)  and Wachovia  Bank, National Association, as trustee,
               with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 4.17
               (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  4.5 to  the   Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on October 1, 2004).
  4.19    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of September 30, 2004,
               among  Pioneer  Debt  Sub,  LLC  and  Wachovia   Bank,   National
               Association, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
               above as Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.3
               to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.20    --   Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of September  30, 2004,
               among the Company and  Wachovia Bank,  National  Association,  as
               trustee,  with  respect  to  the  indenture  identified  above as
               Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.15 to the
               Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File  No. 1-13245,  filed
               with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.21    --   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004, among
               the  Company,  Pioneer  USA,  as  guarantor,  and  Wachovia Bank,
               National  Association,  as trustee, with respect to the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.17 (incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.22    --   Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  September 16, 2005,
               among the Company, Pioneer USA, as Guarantor, and Wachovia  Bank,
               National  Association, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
               1-13245,  filed with the SEC on September 21, 2005).
  10.1H     -- 1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.28 to the  Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated
               June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
  10.2H     -- The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
               to  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form
               S-8, Registration No. 333-35087, filed with  the SEC on September
               8, 1997).
  10.3H     -- First  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  November 23, 1998  (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.72 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
  10.4H     -- Second  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
               effective  as  of  May 20,  1999  (incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.73 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
  10.5H     -- Third  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  February 17,  2000 (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.76 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

                                      121


<PAGE>


  10.6H     -- Fourth  Amendment  to the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  November 20, 2003 (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.5  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended  March 31, 2005,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.7H     -- Fifth  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective  as of  May  12,  2004  (incorporated by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.6 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for
               the quarter  ended  March 31,  2005, File No. 1-13245, filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.8H     -- Sixth  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of December 17, 2004  (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.7 to the  Company's Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter  ended March 31, 2005,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.9H     -- Form of Restricted  Stock Award Agreement  with respect to grants
               under  the  Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan  (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.16 to  the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.10H     -- Form of  Omnibus  Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement for Non-
               employee Directors with  respect  to grants  under the  Company's
               Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
               10.17 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q  for the
               quarter  ended March 31, 2005,  File  No. 1-13245, filed with the
               SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.11H     -- Form of  Omnibus Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement for Option
               Award  Participants  with respect  to grants under  the Company's
               Long-Term Incentive  Plan (Group 1) (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended  March 31, 2005, File  No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.12H     -- Form  of   Restricted  Stock  Unit   Agreement  for  Non-employee
               Directors with  respect to grants  under the  Company's Long-Term
               Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the
               Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 2005, File No. 1-13245).
 10.13H     -- Pioneer Natural  Resources Company Employee  Stock Purchase Plan,
               as amended and restated effective  December 9, 2005 (incorporated
               by reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to the Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the  SEC on  December 14,
               2005).
 10.14H     -- The Company's Executive  Deferred Compensation  Plan, Amended and
               Restated  Effective  as  of  August  1,  2002   (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.15  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.15G (a) -- Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Executive Deferred  Compensation
               Plan,  effective as of January 1, 2007.
 10.16H     -- Pioneer  USA 401(k)  and  Matching  Plan,  Amended  and  Restated
               Effective  as of  January 1, 2002  (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.30 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
 10.17H     -- First Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer  Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan (Amended and Restated  Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective January 10, 2003 (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.10 to  the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.18H     -- Second Amendment to  the Company's Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching  Plan (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective  April 16, 2003  (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.11  to the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.19H     -- Third Amendment  to the Company's  Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1,  2002),  effective June  16, 2003  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.12  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.20H     -- Fourth Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002), effective December 24, 2003 (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.13 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.21H     -- Fifth Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer Natural  Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective  September 28, 2004 (incorporated
               by reference to  Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's  Quarterly Report
               on  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  March 31,  2005, File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).

                                      122


<PAGE>



 10.22      -- Amended and Restated  5-Year  Revolving Credit Agreement dated as
               of  September 30, 2005 among the Company,  as Borrower,  JPMorgan
               Chase Bank,  N.A.  as  Administrative  Agent  and  certain  other
               lenders  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  99.1  to  the
               Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
               with the SEC on October 4, 2005).
 10.23      -- Non-Competition  Agreement dated  October 29,  2004, between  the
               Company and Mark S. Sexton (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
               10.1  to  the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K, File  No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 4, 2004).
 10.24      -- Production  Payment  Purchase  and  Sale  Agreement  dated  as of
               January 26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and  Royalty
               Acquisition  Company,  LLC, as the Buyer (related to Hugoton gas)
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.2  to the  Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 1, 2005).
 10.25      -- Production  Payment  Purchase  and  Sale Agreement  dated  as  of
               January 26,  2005 among  the Company, as the Seller,  and Royalty
               Acquisition Company, LLC, as the Buyer (related to Spraberry oil)
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.3  to the  Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 1, 2005).
 10.26      -- Production Payment Purchase and Sale  Agreement dated as of April
               19, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Wolfcamp Oil and
               Gas Trust,  as the Buyer  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
               99.2  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245,  filed with the SEC on April 21, 2005).
 10.27H     -- 2000 Stock Incentive Plan of Evergreen (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 4.4  to the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form
               S-8, File  No. 333-119355, filed  with the  SEC on  September 29,
               2004).
 10.28H     -- Indemnification  Agreement dated  November 15, 2006,  between the
               Company  and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a   schedule
               identifying other substantially identical  agreements between the
               Company  and each  of its  non-employee  directors and  executive
               officers identified  on the schedule and identifying the material
               differences  between  each  of  those  agreements  and the  filed
               Indemnification  Agreement (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.1  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 17, 2006).
 10.29H     -- Severance Agreement  dated  August 16, 2005,  between the Company
               and  Scott D. Sheffield,  together  with a  schedule  identifying
               other substantially identical  agreements between the Company and
               each of its  executive  officers  identified on  the schedule and
               identifying  the  material  differences  between  each  of  those
               agreements and  the filed  Severance  Agreement  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on August 17, 2005).
 10.30H     -- Severance Agreement  dated December 12, 2005, between the Company
               and William F. Hannes  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
               to the  Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on December 14, 2005).
 10.31H     -- Change in  Control Agreement,  dated August 16, 2005, between the
               Company  and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,   together  with  a  schedule
               identifying other substantially  identical agreements between the
               Company  and each  of its  executive  officers  identified on the
               schedule and identifying the material differences between each of
               those  agreements  and  the  filed  Change  in Control  Agreement
               (incorporated  by reference  to  Exhibit  10.3  to the  Company's
               Current Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on August 17, 2005).
 10.32H     -- Change in Control  Agreement, dated  August 10, 2005, between the
               Company  and  William F. Hannes  (incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.38 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245).
 10.33    --   Pioneer Natural Resources  Company 2006  Long-Term Incentive Plan
               (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to  the  Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC
               on May 9, 2006).
 10.34    --   Form of  restricted stock unit  Award Agreement  for non-employee
               directors with respect to grants under the  Company's 2006  Long-
               Term  Incentive  Plan,   together  with  a  schedule  identifying
               substantially  identical  agreements between the Company and each
               of  its non-employee  directors  identified  on the  schedule and
               identifying  the  material  differences  between  each  of  those
               agreements  and   the  filed  Award  Agreement  (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2006).
  14.1    --   Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (incorporated by reference to
               Annex D of the Company's Schedule 14A Definitive Proxy Statement,
               File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on April 7, 2003).

                                      123


<PAGE>


21.1 (a)  --   Subsidiaries of the registrant.
23.1 (a)  --   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
23.2 (a)  --   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
31.1 (a)  --   Chief Executive  Officer  certification under  Section 302 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2 (a)  --   Chief  Financial Officer certification  under Section  302 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1 (b)  --   Chief Executive  Officer  certification under Section 906 of  the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 (b)  --   Chief  Financial Officer certification  under Section  906 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
- --------------

(a) Filed herewith.
(b) Furnished herewith.
H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant
    to Item 15(b).
G   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement filed herewith pursuant to
    Item 15(b).


                                      124


<PAGE>




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
  Date: February 19, 2007
                                        By:   /s/  Scott D. Sheffield
                                              ---------------------------------
                                              Scott D. Sheffield,
                                              Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                              Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

        Signature                          Title                      Date
        ---------                          -----                      ----
<S>                           <C>                              <C>
/s/  Scott D. Sheffield       Chairman of the Board and Chief  February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------   Executive Officer
Scott D. Sheffield            (principal executive officer)

/s/  Richard P. Dealy         Executive Vice President and     February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------   Chief Financial Officer
Richard P. Dealy              (principal financial officer)

/s/  Darin G. Holderness      Vice President and Chief         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------   Accounting Officer
Darin G. Holderness           (principal accounting officer)

/s/  James R. Baroffio        Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
James R. Baroffio

/s/  Edison C. Buchanan       Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Edison C. Buchanan

/s/  R. Hartwell Gardner      Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner

/s/  Linda K. Lawson          Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Linda K. Lawson

/s/  Andrew D. Lundquist      Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Andrew D. Lundquist

/s/  Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.   Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.

/s/  Frank A. Risch           Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Frank A. Risch

                              Director
- ---------------------------
Mark S. Sexton

/s/  Robert A. Solberg        Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Robert A. Solberg

/s/  Jim A. Watson            Director                         February 19, 2007
- ---------------------------
Jim A. Watson

</TABLE>


                                      125



<PAGE>


                                  Exhibit Index
                                  -------------

 Exhibit
 Number                            Description
- --------       ----------------------------------------------------------------
   2.1    --   Purchase and Sale Agreement by and between  Pioneer as Seller and
               Marubeni    Offshore   Production   (USA)   Inc.   as   Purchaser
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  2.1  to  the Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 28, 2006).
   3.1    --   Amended and Restated  Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1 to  the  Company's
               Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-4,  dated  June  27,  1997,
               Registration No. 333-26951).
   3.2    --   Amended and  Restated   Bylaws of  the Company  (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 3.1 to  the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, dated November 17, 2006, File No. 1-13245).
   4.1    --   Form of Certificate of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of
               the  Company  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  4.1 to the
               Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-4,  dated  June 27,
               1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
   4.2    --   Rights  Agreement  dated July 24, 2001,  between  the Company and
               Continental  Stock  Transfer &  Trust  Company,  as  Rights Agent
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to  the  Company's
               Registration Statement on Form 8-A, File  No. 1-13245, filed with
               the SEC on July 24, 2001).
   4.3    --   Amendment No. 1 to  Rights  Agreement, dated  as of May 22, 2006,
               between  the  Company   and  Continental  Stock  Transfer & Trust
               Company (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment
               No. 1 the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form 8-A/A,  File
               No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2006).
   4.4    --   Certificate  of  Designation  of  Series A  Junior  Participating
               Preferred  Stock  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  A to
               Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
               File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
   4.5    --   Indenture  dated April 12, 1995,  between  Pioneer USA (successor
               to Parker & Parsley  Petroleum Company  ("Parker & Parsley")) and
               The Chase  Manhattan  Bank  (National  Association),  as  trustee
               (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit 4.1 to Parker & Parsley's
               Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  dated  April 12,  1995,  File No.
               1-10695).
   4.6    --   First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 7, 1997,  among
               Parker & Parsley,  The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  trustee,  and
               Pioneer USA, with respect  to the indenture  identified  above as
               Exhibit  4.5  (incorporated  by reference to  Exhibit 10.5 to the
               Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  quarter ended
               September 30, 1997, File No. 1-13245).
   4.7    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated as of December  30,  1997,
               among Pioneer USA, Pioneer NewSub1, Inc. and The Chase  Manhattan
               Bank,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture  identified
               above as  Exhibit  4.5   (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit
               10.17 to  the  Company's  Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).
   4.8    --   Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as  of  December 30, 1997,
               among  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.  (as  successor  to  Pioneer USA),
               Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc. and The  Chase Manhattan Bank,  as trustee,
               with respect  to the indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 4.5
               (incorporated by  reference  to Exhibit  10.18 to the   Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on January 2, 1998).
   4.9    --   Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  December 30, 1997,
               among  Pioneer  DebtCo,  Inc. (as  successor to  Pioneer NewSub1,
               Inc., as successor to Pioneer USA), the Company,  Pioneer USA and
               The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the
               indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.5  (incorporated  by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.19 to the  Company's  Current  Report on
               Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on  January 2,
               1998).
  4.10    --   Indenture dated  January 13,  1998,  between  the Company and The
               Bank of  New York,  as  trustee  (incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
               Form 8-K,  File No.  1-13245,  filed with  the SEC on January 14,
               1998).
  4.11    --   First  Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 13, 1998, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of  New York,  as trustee,  with  respect  to  the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on
               Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245,  filed with the SEC on January 14,
               1998).

                                      126


<PAGE>


  4.12    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of April 11, 2000, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of  New York,  as trustee,  with  respect  to  the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended March 31, 2000, File No. 1-13245).
  4.13    --   Third Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of  April 30, 2002, among
               the Company,  Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The
               Bank of New York,  as  trustee,  with  respect  to the  indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 10.4 to the  Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended March 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
  4.14    --   Fourth  Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of July 15, 2004, among
               the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee, with respect to
               the indenture  identified above as  Exhibit 4.10 (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
  4.15    --   Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 15, 2004, among the
               Company, Pioneer USA, as the subsidiary  guarantor,  and The Bank
               of  New  York,  as  trustee,  with  respect   to  the   indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.10  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 99.2 to the  Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K, File
               No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on July 19, 2004).
  4.16    --   Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of  May 1, 2006, among the
               Company, Pioneer  Natural Resources USA, Inc. and The Bank of New
               York  Trust  Company,   N.A.,  as  Trustee,  with  respect to the
               indenture  identified  above  as  Exhibit  4.10  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report  on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 4, 2006).
  4.17    --   Indenture  dated  as of  March  10,  2004,  among  Evergreen  and
               Wachovia Bank,  National  Association,  as  trustee,  relating to
               Evergreen's   5.875%   Senior   Subordinated   Notes   due   2012
               (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to   Evergreen's
               Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended   March 31,
               2004, File No. 1-13171, filed with the SEC on May 10, 2004).
  4.18    --   First Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of  September 28,  2004,
               among  Pioneer  Evergreen  Properties,   LLC  (as   successor  to
               Evergreen)  and Wachovia  Bank, National Association, as trustee,
               with respect to the  indenture  identified  above as Exhibit 4.17
               (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit  4.5 to  the   Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.  1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on October 1, 2004).
  4.19    --   Second  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of September 30, 2004,
               among  Pioneer  Debt  Sub,  LLC  and  Wachovia   Bank,   National
               Association, as trustee, with respect to the indenture identified
               above as Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.3
               to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.20    --   Third  Supplemental  Indenture  dated  as of September  30, 2004,
               among the Company and  Wachovia Bank,  National  Association,  as
               trustee,  with  respect  to  the  indenture  identified  above as
               Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 4.15 to the
               Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File  No. 1-13245,  filed
               with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.21    --   Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004, among
               the  Company,  Pioneer  USA,  as  guarantor,  and  Wachovia Bank,
               National  Association,  as trustee, with respect to the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.17 (incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 5, 2004).
  4.22    --   Fifth  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  September 16, 2005,
               among the Company, Pioneer USA, as Guarantor, and Wachovia  Bank,
               National  Association, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture
               identified  above as Exhibit 4.17  (incorporated  by reference to
               Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
               1-13245,  filed with the SEC on September 21, 2005).
  10.1H     -- 1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.28 to the  Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, dated
               June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).
  10.2H     -- The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
               to  Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form
               S-8, Registration No. 333-35087, filed with  the SEC on September
               8, 1997).
  10.3H     -- First  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  November 23, 1998  (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.72 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

                                      127


<PAGE>

  10.4H     -- Second  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
               effective  as  of  May 20,  1999  (incorporated  by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.73 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
  10.5H     -- Third  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  February 17,  2000 (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.76 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).
  10.6H     -- Fourth  Amendment  to the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of  November 20, 2003 (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.5  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended  March 31, 2005,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.7H     -- Fifth  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective  as of  May  12,  2004  (incorporated by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.6 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for
               the quarter  ended  March 31,  2005, File No. 1-13245, filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.8H     -- Sixth  Amendment  to  the  Company's  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,
               effective as of December 17, 2004  (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.7 to the  Company's Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter  ended March 31, 2005,  File No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
  10.9H     -- Form of Restricted  Stock Award Agreement  with respect to grants
               under  the  Company's  Long-Term Incentive Plan  (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.16 to  the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.10H     -- Form of  Omnibus  Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement for Non-
               employee Directors with  respect  to grants  under the  Company's
               Long-Term  Incentive Plan  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
               10.17 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q  for the
               quarter  ended March 31, 2005,  File  No. 1-13245, filed with the
               SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.11H     -- Form of  Omnibus Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement for Option
               Award  Participants  with respect  to grants under  the Company's
               Long-Term Incentive  Plan (Group 1) (incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
               the quarter ended  March 31, 2005, File  No. 1-13245,  filed with
               the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.12H     -- Form  of   Restricted  Stock  Unit   Agreement  for  Non-employee
               Directors with  respect to grants  under the  Company's Long-Term
               Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the
               Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 2005, File No. 1-13245).
 10.13H     -- Pioneer Natural  Resources Company Employee  Stock Purchase Plan,
               as amended and restated effective  December 9, 2005 (incorporated
               by reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to the Company's Current Report on
               Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the  SEC on  December 14,
               2005).
 10.14H     -- The Company's Executive  Deferred Compensation  Plan, Amended and
               Restated  Effective  as  of  August  1,  2002   (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.15  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.15G (a) -- Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Executive Deferred  Compensation
               Plan,  effective as of January 1, 2007.
 10.16H     -- Pioneer  USA 401(k)  and  Matching  Plan,  Amended  and  Restated
               Effective  as of  January 1, 2002  (incorporated by  reference to
               Exhibit 10.30 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 2002, File No. 1-13245).
 10.17H     -- First Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer  Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan (Amended and Restated  Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective January 10, 2003 (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.10 to  the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.18H     -- Second Amendment to  the Company's Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching  Plan (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective  April 16, 2003  (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.11  to the Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.19H     -- Third Amendment  to the Company's  Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1,  2002),  effective June  16, 2003  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.12  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).

                                      128


<PAGE>


 10.20H     -- Fourth Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002), effective December 24, 2003 (incorporated by
               reference to  Exhibit 10.13 to the  Company's Quarterly Report on
               Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.21H     -- Fifth Amendment to the  Company's Pioneer Natural  Resources USA,
               Inc. 401(k) and Matching Plan  (Amended and Restated Effective as
               of January 1, 2002),  effective  September 28, 2004 (incorporated
               by reference to  Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's  Quarterly Report
               on  Form 10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  March 31,  2005, File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 6, 2005).
 10.22      -- Amended and Restated  5-Year  Revolving Credit Agreement dated as
               of  September 30, 2005 among the Company,  as Borrower,  JPMorgan
               Chase Bank,  N.A.  as  Administrative  Agent  and  certain  other
               lenders  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  99.1  to  the
               Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No. 1-13245,  filed
               with the SEC on October 4, 2005).
 10.23      -- Non-Competition  Agreement dated  October 29,  2004, between  the
               Company and Mark S. Sexton (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
               10.1  to  the  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K, File  No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 4, 2004).
 10.24      -- Production  Payment  Purchase  and  Sale  Agreement  dated  as of
               January 26, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and  Royalty
               Acquisition  Company,  LLC, as the Buyer (related to Hugoton gas)
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.2  to the  Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 1, 2005).
 10.25      -- Production  Payment  Purchase  and  Sale Agreement  dated  as  of
               January 26,  2005 among  the Company, as the Seller,  and Royalty
               Acquisition Company, LLC, as the Buyer (related to Spraberry oil)
               (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 99.3  to the  Company's
               Current  Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on February 1, 2005).
 10.26      -- Production Payment Purchase and Sale  Agreement dated as of April
               19, 2005 among the Company,  as the Seller,  and Wolfcamp Oil and
               Gas Trust,  as the Buyer  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
               99.2  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245,  filed with the SEC on April 21, 2005).
 10.27H     -- 2000 Stock Incentive Plan of Evergreen (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 4.4  to the  Company's  Registration Statement on Form
               S-8, File  No. 333-119355, filed  with the  SEC on  September 29,
               2004).
 10.28H     -- Indemnification  Agreement dated  November 15, 2006,  between the
               Company  and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a   schedule
               identifying other substantially identical  agreements between the
               Company  and each  of its  non-employee  directors and  executive
               officers identified  on the schedule and identifying the material
               differences  between  each  of  those  agreements  and the  filed
               Indemnification  Agreement (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit
               10.1  to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K,  File No.
               1-13245, filed with the SEC on November 17, 2006).
 10.29H     -- Severance Agreement  dated  August 16, 2005,  between the Company
               and  Scott D. Sheffield,  together  with a  schedule  identifying
               other substantially identical  agreements between the Company and
               each of its  executive  officers  identified on  the schedule and
               identifying  the  material  differences  between  each  of  those
               agreements and  the filed  Severance  Agreement  (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on August 17, 2005).
 10.30H     -- Severance Agreement  dated December 12, 2005, between the Company
               and William F. Hannes  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
               to the  Company's  Current Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,
               filed with the SEC on December 14, 2005).
 10.31H     -- Change in  Control Agreement,  dated August 16, 2005, between the
               Company  and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,   together  with  a  schedule
               identifying other substantially  identical agreements between the
               Company  and each  of its  executive  officers  identified on the
               schedule and identifying the material differences between each of
               those  agreements  and  the  filed  Change  in Control  Agreement
               (incorporated  by reference  to  Exhibit  10.3  to the  Company's
               Current Report on  Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC
               on August 17, 2005).
 10.32H     -- Change in Control  Agreement, dated  August 10, 2005, between the
               Company  and  William F. Hannes  (incorporated  by  reference  to
               Exhibit 10.38 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 2005, File No. 1-13245).

                                      129


<PAGE>

 10.33    --   Pioneer Natural Resources  Company 2006  Long-Term Incentive Plan
               (incorporated  by  reference to  Exhibit 10.1  to  the  Company's
               Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 1-13245,  filed with the SEC
               on May 9, 2006).
 10.34    --   Form of  restricted stock unit  Award Agreement  for non-employee
               directors with respect to grants under the  Company's 2006  Long-
               Term  Incentive  Plan,   together  with  a  schedule  identifying
               substantially  identical  agreements between the Company and each
               of  its non-employee  directors  identified  on the  schedule and
               identifying  the  material  differences  between  each  of  those
               agreements  and   the  filed  Award  Agreement  (incorporated  by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K, File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2006).
  14.1    --   Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (incorporated by reference to
               Annex D of the Company's Schedule 14A Definitive Proxy Statement,
               File No. 1-13245, filed with the SEC on April 7, 2003).
21.1 (a)  --   Subsidiaries of the registrant.
23.1 (a)  --   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
23.2 (a)  --   Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
31.1 (a)  --   Chief Executive  Officer  certification under  Section 302 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2 (a)  --   Chief  Financial Officer certification  under Section  302 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1 (b)  --   Chief Executive  Officer  certification under Section 906 of  the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2 (b)  --   Chief  Financial Officer certification  under Section  906 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
- --------------

(a) Filed herewith.
(b) Furnished herewith.
H   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement previously filed pursuant
    to Item 15(b).
G   Executive Compensation Plan or Arrangement filed herewith pursuant to
    Item 15(b).


                                      130


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>exh1015g.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 10.15G
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.15G

                             AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE
                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                      EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
              (Amended and Restated Effective as of August 1, 2002)

     Pursuant to the  provisions  of Section 12.4 thereof,  the Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company  Executive  Deferred  Compensation Plan (Amended and Restated
Effective  as of August 1,  2002) (the  "Plan") is hereby  amended by adding the
following to the end of Article III:

     3.4     Qualified  Military  Leave  Make-Up  Deferrals and  Related Make-Up
             Matching Credits for Service Members

     (a)     If a  Member  experiences  periods of  absence  from his  or her or
             employment with the  Company necessitated by  reason of  service in
             the uniformed services within the meaning of the Uniformed Services
             Employment  and  Reemployment  Rights  Act  of  1994,   as  amended
             ("USERRA") (a "Service Member")  and the Service  Member returns to
             active  employment  with the Company  while he or she has rights to
             reemployment  under  USERRA,  then  after  his  or  her  return  to
             employment with  the Company such Service  Member will be permitted
             to make a make-up  deferral to the Plan from his or her base salary
             or bonus in an amount up to (i) the amount the Service Member would
             have been  permitted to  defer under  Section 3.1(a)(1) of the Plan
             during  the  Service  Member's  periods of  absence  for  uniformed
             service minus (ii) any Member Deferrals made to  the Plan on behalf
             of the Service Member  under Section 3.1(a)(1)  during such periods
             of absence (the "Make-Up Deferral").  The Make-Up Deferral shall be
             in addition to the  deferral permitted under Section 3.1(a) for the
             Plan  Year(s)  during  which  the   Make-Up  Deferral  election  is
             effective  and  shall  not be eligible  for a Matching Credit under
             Section  3.2.  The Service  Member shall  be eligible  to have such
             Make-Up  Deferrals  made to the  Plan  on his  or her  behalf for a
             period of time (the "Make-Up Period") equal to  the lesser of (i) 3
             multiplied by his or her immediate past period of uniformed service
             or (ii) 5 years.  The Make-Up  Deferrals may  be made  beginning on
             the first day of the Plan Year following  the Service Member's date
             of  active  reemployment  with the  Company and  continuing for the
             Make-Up  Period.  Prior  to the first  day of each Plan Year during
             the Make-Up Period,  the Service Member must  irrevocably  elect to
             defer from  his or her base salary or bonus as a Make-Up Deferral a
             percentage  or  dollar  amount of his  or her  base salary or bonus
             earned  in  the next  Plan Year.  If the  Service Member  elects to
             defer a  dollar  amount of his or her  base salary for a Plan Year,
             the Make-Up  Deferrals shall be  deferred  in  substantially  equal


<PAGE>


             installments over  the  number of payroll  periods during  the Plan
             Year following the Service Member's election. If the Service Member
             elects to defer  an amount of his or her  bonus, the amount will be
             deferred from the  Service Member's bonus  earned in the  next Plan
             Year and payable  in the  Plan Year  after the next Plan Year.  Any
             Make-Up Deferrals elected by  the Service Member shall  be credited
             to his or her General Account as of a date determined in accordance
             with  procedures  established  from  time  to  time  by  the   Plan
             Administrator; provided, however, that such Make-Up Deferrals shall
             be credited to the  Service Member's General  Account no later than
             30 days after the date upon which the  Pay deferred would have been
             received by the Service Member in cash if he or she had not elected
             to defer such amount pursuant to this Section.

     (b)     The Company shall defer on the Service Member's behalf as a make-up
             matching credit  (the "Make-Up Matching  Credit")  an amount  which
             equals 100% of the Service Member's Make-Up Deferrals made pursuant
             to subsection (a) during such  payroll period;  provided,  however,
             that  in no  event shall  the  Service  Member's  Make-Up  Matching
             Credits  exceed (i) 8% (10%  for officers  of the  Company)  of the
             Service Member's base salary during  his or her periods  of absence
             for uniformed  service minus  (ii) any Matching Credits made to the
             Plan on  behalf of the Service  Member under  Section 3.2(a) during
             the Service  Member's  periods of  absence for  uniformed  service.
             Make-Up Matching  Credits made on the Service Member's behalf shall
             be credited  to his or her  Matching Account in accordance with the
             procedures established from time by time by the Plan Administrator.

     (c)     Any amount deferred under this Section 3.4 shall relate to the Plan
             Year  in which  the  amount is  credited  to the  Service  Member's
             Account and shall not be considered to be a deferral for an earlier
             Plan Year  in which  the period  of absence  for  uniformed service
             occurred.   Except  as  otherwise  provided  in this  Section,  all
             provisions of the Plan applicable to  Member Deferrals and Matching
             Credits shall apply with full force and effect to Make-Up Deferrals
             and  Make-Up  Matching  Credits,  respectively,  including, but not
             limited  to,  provisions  governing the  time and  form of  payment
             elections.



                                       2


<PAGE>



     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  this  Amendment  has been  executed  this 20th day of
December, 2006, to be effective as of January 1, 2007.

                                          PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY



                                           By  /s/   Mark H. Kleinman
                                              -------------------------------
                                              Mark H. Kleinman, Vice President




                                       3



<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>exh211.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 21.1
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
                             as of December 31, 2006

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

State or Jurisdiction
of Organization           Subsidiaries                                  Ownership %
- ---------------           ------------                                  -----------
<S>                       <C>                                            <C>
Delaware                  DMLP CO.                                          100
Cayman Islands            LF Holding Company LDF                            100
Colorado                  Long Canyon Gas Company, LLC                     75.4
Colorado                  Lorencito Gas Gathering, LLC                       85
Delaware                  Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.                   100
Delaware                  Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.                  100
South Africa              Petroleum South Cape (Pty) Ltd.                   100
Canada                    Pioneer Canada ULC                                100
Delaware                  Pioneer International Resources Company           100
Nigeria                   Pioneer JDZ Limited                               100
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Gas Company                       100
Delaware                  Pioneer Natural Resources Alaska, Inc.            100
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Algeria Limited         100
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd.            100
Canada                    Pioneer Natural Resources Canada                  100
Canada                    Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.             100
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Equatorial Guinea       100
                          Limited
Texas                     Pioneer Natural Resources Foundation              100
Bahamas                   Pioneer Natural Resources Libya Limited           100
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Morocco Limited         100
Nigeria                   Pioneer Natural Resources Nigeria (320)          58.8
                          Limited
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Nigeria Ltd.            100
Delaware                  Pioneer Natural Resources Properties LP           100
South Africa              Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty)      100
                          Limited
Argentina                 Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego)      100
                          S.R.L.
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd.            100
England                   Pioneer Natural Resources UK Limited              100
Delaware                  Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.               100
Nigeria                   Pioneer Nigeria Deepwater Limited                 100
Nigeria                   Pioneer NR Nigeria (256) Limited                  100
Cayman Islands            Pioneer Resources Africa Limited                  100
Bahamas                   Pioneer Resources Gabon Limited                   100
Delaware                  Pioneer Shelf Properties Incorporated             100
Texas                     Pioneer Uravan, Inc.                              100
Cayman Islands            TDF Holding Company LDC                           100
Delaware                  Westpan NGL LP                                    100
Delaware                  Westpan Properties, Inc.                          100
Nevada                    Westpan Resources Company                         100
Delaware                  Westpan Resources LP                              100


<PAGE>




                         Partnerships in which Pioneer Natural Resources USA,
                         Inc. is the managing general partner

Texas                    Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88 L.P.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                 Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private
                          Development, L.P.
Texas                    Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.
Texas                    Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership

</TABLE>



<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>exh231.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 23.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the  incorporation  by  reference  in the  following  Registration
Statements:

       (1)    Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-88478) of Pioneer Natural
              Resources Company  and Pioneer Natural Resources  USA, Inc. and in
              the related Prospectus,

       (2)    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136488) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company  Executive Deferred Compensation
              Plan,

       (3)    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136489) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan,

       (4)    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136490) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company Long-Term Incentive Plan,

       (5)    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-119355) pertaining to the
              2000 Stock Incentive Plan of Evergreen Resources, Inc., the Carbon
              Energy  Corporation 1999  Stock  Option  Plan,  and the  Evergreen
              Resources, Inc. Initial Stock Option Plan,

       (6)    Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-88438) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company Long-Term Incentive Plan,

       (7)    Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-39153)  pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company Deferred Compensation Retirement
              Plan,

       (8)    Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-39249) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan,

       (9)    Registration Statement (Form  S-8 No. 333-35085) pertaining to the
              1996 Incentive Plan of Mesa, Inc.,

       (10)   Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-35087)  pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company Long-Term Incentive Plan,

       (11)   Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-35165) pertaining to the
              Pioneer Natural Resources Company Employee Stock Purchase Plan;

of our  reports  dated  February 19,  2007,  with  respect to  the  consolidated
financial  statements of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  Pioneer  Natural
Resources  Company  management's  assessment  of the  effectiveness  of internal
control over financial reporting, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial  reporting  of Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2006.

                                                               Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas
February 19, 2007


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>exh232.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 23.2
<TEXT>
                                                                    Exhibit 23.2


            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS

     We hereby  consent to the  incorporation  by reference in the  Registration
Statements (No.  333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No. 333-39153,  No. 333-39249,  No.
333-35085, No. 333-88438, No. 333-119355, No. 333-136488, No. 333-136489 and No.
333-136490)  on Form S-8 and (No.  333-88478)  on Form  S-3 of  Pioneer  Natural
Resources Company (the "Company") and the related  Prospectuses of the reference
of Netherland,  Sewell & Associates,  Inc. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended  December 31, 2006,  of the Company and its  subsidiaries,  filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

       NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.

       By:    /s/ Frederic D. Sewell, P.E.
              ----------------------------------------------
              Frederic D. Sewell, P.E.
              Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Dallas, Texas
February 19, 2007


<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>exh311.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 31.1
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.1

                      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

I, Scott D. Sheffield, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on  Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural Resources
Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made,  in light of  circumstances  under which such  statements  were made,  not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal  control over financial
reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f) and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,  or caused such disclosure
controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to ensure that
material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including its  consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,  particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed  such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused such
internal control over financial  reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the  registrant's  disclosure  controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the effectiveness
of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal  control
over  financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the  design or
operation of internal  control over  financial  reporting  which are  reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud,  whether  or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control over
financial reporting.

February 19, 2007
                                       /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                      Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board
                                      and Chief Executive Officer

 <PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>exh312.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 31.2
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.2

                      CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION

I, Richard P. Dealy, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pioneer Natural  Resources
Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made,  in light of  circumstances  under which such  statements  were made,  not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal  control over financial
reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f) and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,  or caused such disclosure
controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to ensure that
material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including its  consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,  particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Designed  such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused such
internal control over financial  reporting to be designed under our supervision,
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the  effectiveness  of the  registrant's  disclosure  controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the effectiveness
of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal  control
over  financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the  design or
operation of internal  control over  financial  reporting  which are  reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud,  whether  or not  material,  that  involves  management  or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control over
financial reporting.

February 19, 2007

                                     /s/ Richard P. Dealy
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                     Richard P. Dealy, Executive Vice President
                                     and Chief Financial Officer


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>exh321.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 32.1
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 32.1

                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350

     I, Scott D.  Sheffield,  Chairman  and Chief  Executive  Officer of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company (the "Company"),  hereby certify that the accompanying
Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2006 and filed with
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  pursuant  to  Section  13(a)  of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the  "Report") by the Company  fully  complies
with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all material  respects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.

                              Name:  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                     Scott D. Sheffield, Chairman of the Board
                                     and Chief Executive Officer

                              Date:  February 19, 2007


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>exh322.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PXD FORM 10-K 12/31/06 EXH. 32.2
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2

                                CERTIFICATION OF
                             CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                      OF PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
                         PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350

     I, Richard P. Dealy,  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer
of Pioneer Natural  Resources  Company (the "Company"),  hereby certify that the
accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and
filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Section 13(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Report") by the Company fully complies
with the requirements of that section.

     I further  certify  that the  information  contained  in the Report  fairly
presents,  in all material  respects,  the  financial  condition  and results of
operations of the Company.

                                  Name:  /s/ Richard P. Dealy
                                         ------------------------------------
                                         Richard P. Dealy, Executive Vice
                                         President and Chief Financial Officer

                                  Date:  February 19, 2007



<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
