-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F4rSDmcekq5LoPPgNVhhrwSgeOxRkNXyumsOovoTLEErsCTyD5tSa/rgUg6cu/SO
 1GJMSoCm3UWpG17inH7fYg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001038357-01-000008.txt : 20010228
<SEC-HEADER>0001038357-01-000008.hdr.sgml : 20010228
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001038357-01-000008
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001038357
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				752702753
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13245
		FILM NUMBER:		1554763

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724449001

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 WILLIAMS SQUARE WEST
		STREET 2:		5205 N OCONNOR BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K


              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000


                         Commission File Number: 1-13245

                        Pioneer Natural Resources Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                         Delaware                             75-2702753
              (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
               incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

1400 Williams Square West, 5205 N.  O'Connor Blvd., Irving, Texas     75039
           (Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

               Registrant's telephone number, including areacode:
                                 (972) 444-9001

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                                   on which registered
   -------------------                                  ----------------------
   Common Stock......................................   New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  Registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
of  Registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. X

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
  of the Registrant as of February 20, 2001...................   $1,759,169,790

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of
  February 20, 2001...........................................       98,414,096

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference:

(1)   Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17, 2001
      - Referenced in Part III of this report.




<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                              CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
              Pursuant to National Policy Statement No. 47 (Canada)
                        (Annual Information Form ("AIF"))

<TABLE>

Item Number and Caption of AIF                         Heading or Location in Form 10-K
- ------------------------------                         --------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>

1.   Incorporation                                     Item 1.   Business

2.   General Development of the Business               Item 1.   Business

3.   Narrative Description of the Business             Item 1.   Business
                                                       Item 2.   Properties

4.   Selected Consolidated Financial Information       Item 6.   Selected Financial Data
                                                       Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

5.   Management's Discussion and Analysis              Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis
                                                                 of Financial Condition and Results of
                                                                 Operations
                                                       Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
                                                                 About Market Risk

6.   Market for Securities                             Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and
                                                                 Related Stockholder Matters

7.   Directors and Officers                            Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


8.   Additional Information                            Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
                                                       Item 11.  Executive Compensation
                                                       Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                                                                 and Management
                                                       Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

</TABLE>



                                        2

<PAGE>



       Parts I and II of this annual report on Form 10-K (the "Report")  contain
forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no
assurances  can be  given  that  the  actual  events  and  results  will  not be
materially  different  than the  anticipated  results  described  in the forward
looking statements. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation"
and  "Item 1.  Business  - Risks  Associated  with  Business  Activities"  for a
description  of various  factors  that could  materially  affect the  ability of
Pioneer Natural Resources  Company to achieve the anticipated  results described
in the forward looking statements.

          Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein

       Within this Report,  the following oil and gas terms and conventions have
specific  meanings:  "Bbl" means a standard  barrel  containing 42 United States
gallons;  "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet;  "Bcfe" means a billion cubic feet
equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a
comparable gas equivalent basis; "BOE" means a barrel-of-oil equivalent and is a
standard  convention  used to express  oil and gas volumes on a  comparable  oil
equivalent  basis;  "Btu" means British thermal unit and is an energy equivalent
measure of  natural  gas;  "MBbl"  means one  thousand  Bbls;  "MBOE"  means one
thousand BOE; "MMBOE" means one million BOE; "Mcf" means one thousand cubic feet
and is a measure of natural gas  volume;  "MMcf"  means one million  cubic feet;
"NGL" means natural gas liquid;  "NYMEX" means The New York Mercantile Exchange;
"proved  reserves"  mean the  estimated  quantities  of oil, gas and natural gas
liquids which  geological  and  engineering  data  demonstrate  with  reasonable
certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
economic and  operating  conditions  (i.e.,  prices and costs as of the date the
estimate is made),  where prices  include  consideration  of changes in existing
prices only to the extent that price  changes are  provided  for under  existing
contractual  arrangements,  but not  escalations  based  on  future  conditions;
"Standardized Measure" means the after-tax present value of estimated future net
revenues  of  proved  reserves,  determined  in  accordance  with the  rules and
regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"),
using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount
rate; and "WTI" means West Texas Intermediate and is a benchmark grade of oil.

       Gas equivalents  are determined  under the relative energy content method
by using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL.

       With respect to  information on the working  interest in wells,  drilling
locations and acreage,  "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined
by multiplying  "gross" wells,  drilling  locations and acres by Pioneer Natural
Resources Company's working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres.
Unless otherwise  specified,  wells,  drilling  locations and acreage statistics
quoted  herein  represent  gross wells,  drilling  locations or acres;  and, all
dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

General

       Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  ("Pioneer",  or the  "Company"),  a
Delaware  corporation,  was formed by the  merger of Parker & Parsley  Petroleum
Company  ("Parker & Parsley") and MESA Inc.  ("Mesa")  during  August 1997.  The
Company subsequently acquired the Canadian and Argentine oil and gas business of
Chauvco Resources Ltd. ("Chauvco"),  a publicly traded,  independent oil and gas
company based in Calgary,  Canada,  during December 1997.  Pioneer is an oil and
gas exploration and production  company with ownership  interests in oil and gas
properties  located in the United States,  Argentina,  Canada,  South Africa and
Gabon.

       The Company's executive offices are located at 1400 Williams Square West,
5205 N. O'Connor Blvd.,  Irving,  Texas 75039; the Company's telephone number is
(972) 444-9001.  The Company maintains other offices in Midland,  Texas;  Buenos
Aires, Argentina;  Calgary,  Canada; and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31,
2000,  the Company  had 853  employees,  410 of whom were  employed in field and
plant operations.

                                        3

<PAGE>



Mission and Strategies

       The Company's mission is to provide shareholders with superior investment
returns through strategies that maximize Pioneer's  long-term  profitability and
net asset values.  The strategies  employed to achieve this mission are anchored
by the Company's  long-lived  Spraberry oil field and Hugoton and West Panhandle
gas fields' reserves and production.  Underlying these fields are  approximately
67 percent of the Company's  proved oil and gas reserves  which have a remaining
productive life in excess of 40 years. The stable base of oil and gas production
from  these  fields  generates  operating  cash flows  that  allow  Pioneer  the
financial  flexibility  to selectively  reinvest  capital in these areas to: (a)
develop and  increase  production  from  existing  properties  through  low-risk
development drilling activities,  (b) leverage cost management  opportunities to
achieve  operating  and  technical   efficiencies,   and  (c)  pursue  strategic
acquisitions  in the  Company's  core areas that will  complement  the Company's
existing asset base and provide additional growth  opportunities.  The Company's
financial flexibility also allows it to use portions of its operating cash flows
to: (a)  selectively  expand into new  geographic  areas that feature  producing
properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities, (b) invest in the
personnel  and  technology  necessary  to  increase  the  Company's  exploration
opportunities, and (c) enhance liquidity; allowing the Company to take advantage
of future exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. The Company is
committed  to  continuing  to enhance  shareholder  investment  returns  through
adherence to these strategies.

Business Activities

       The Company is an independent  oil and gas  exploration  and  development
company. Its purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and
produce  proved  oil,  NGL and gas  reserves.  In so doing,  the  Company  sells
homogenous  oil, NGL and gas units which,  except for  geographic and relatively
minor qualitative  differentials,  cannot be significantly  differentiated  from
units offered for sale by the Company's  competitors.  Competitive  advantage is
gained in the oil and gas exploration and development  industry through superior
capital investment decisions, technological innovation and cost management.

       Petroleum  Industry.  The petroleum  industry has been  characterized  by
volatile oil, NGL and gas commodity prices and relatively  stable supplier costs
during the three years ended December 31, 2000.  During 1998,  weather patterns,
regional  economic  recessions and political matters combined to cause worldwide
oil supplies to exceed demand resulting in a substantial  decline in oil prices.
Also during 1998, but to a lesser extent, market prices for gas declined. During
1999 and 2000, the  Organization  of Petroleum  Exporting  Countries and certain
other  oil  exporting  nations  announced  reductions  in their  planned  export
volumes.  Those  announcements,  together  with the  enactment of the  announced
reductions in export volumes, had a positive impact on world oil prices, as have
overall  gas  supply and  demand  fundamentals  on North  American  gas  prices.
Although  the  favorable  commodity  price  environment  is expected to continue
during 2001, the Company will continue its debt reduction, commodity hedging and
cost management measures to protect its net asset values from a potential return
to a less favorable commodity price environment.

       The Company.  The  Company's  asset base is anchored by the Spraberry oil
field located in West Texas,  the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest  Kansas
and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas  Panhandle.  Complementing
these areas, the Company has exploration and development  opportunities  and oil
and gas  production  activities  in the United  States Gulf Coast area,  Gulf of
Mexico, Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Gabon. Combined, these assets create
a portfolio of resources and  opportunities  that are well  balanced  among oil,
natural gas liquids and gas; and that are also well balanced between long-lived,
dependable   production   and   exploration   and   development   opportunities.
Additionally,  the Company has a team of dedicated  employees that represent the
professional  disciplines  and sciences  that will allow Pioneer to maximize the
long-term profitability and net asset values inherent in its physical assets.

       During 1998, the Company  announced  plans to sell certain  non-strategic
oil and gas fields, its intentions to reorganize its operations by combining its
six domestic operating regions, and other cost reduction initiatives intended to
allow  the   Company  to  realize   greater   operational   and   administrative
efficiencies.  Specific cost  reduction  initiatives  included the relocation of
most of the Company's  administrative  services  from Midland,  Texas to Irving,
Texas;  the  closings  of the  Company's  regional  offices  in  Oklahoma  City,
Oklahoma,  Corpus  Christi,  Texas and Houston,  Texas;  the  termination of 350
employees;   and,  further   centralization  of  the  Company's   organizational
structure.  The  consolidation  of  administrative  services to  Irving  and the

                                       4

<PAGE>



closing of the Corpus Christi,  Texas office were completed in 1998. The Company
completed the closings of the Houston, Texas and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma offices
during 1999 and further  centralized  certain  operational  functions in Irving,
Texas. As a result of the  reorganization  initiatives,  the Company  recognized
reorganization  charges of $8.5 million and $33.2 million  during 1999 and 1998,
respectively,  and realized reductions in per BOE production costs from $3.56 in
1998 to $3.12 in 1999 and reductions in per BOE administrative  costs from $1.16
in 1998 to $.79 in 1999.  During 2000,  the Company's per BOE  production  costs
increased to $4.34,  primarily due to increases in per BOE production  taxes and
field fuel  expenses  that are  directly  related to the increase in oil and gas
prices. Per BOE administrative costs continued to decrease to $.76 during 2000.

       During 2000 and 1999,  the  Company  realized  $102.7  million and $420.5
million,  respectively,  of net proceeds from the divestiture of non-core assets
($390.5  million of the 1999  proceeds  were cash  proceeds).  Net cash proceeds
associated  with the  2000  and 1999  asset  divestitures  were  used to  reduce
outstanding  indebtedness  (see  "Asset  Divestitures"  and  Note K of  Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data").

       The stable  operating  cash flows  generated by the Company's core assets
allow the Company to adjust capital spending levels based on anticipated changes
in  internally-generated  cash  flows  and in  support  of  debt  goals  without
significantly  impacting short term production volumes. During 1999, the Company
reduced  its capital  expenditures  to $179.7  million  and reduced  outstanding
indebtedness by $429.3 million.  During 2000, in a favorable price  environment,
the Company  increased its capital  expenditures  to $299.7  million and reduced
outstanding  indebtedness by $167.2 million. The Company's budgeted 2001 capital
expenditures  are $430  million  (see  "Drilling  Activities"  and  "Exploratory
Activities", below).

       The Company provides administrative,  financial and management support to
United  States and foreign  subsidiaries  that explore for,  develop and produce
oil, NGL and gas reserves.  Drilling and production  operations are  principally
located  domestically in Texas,  Kansas,  Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico,  and
internationally in Argentina, Canada and South Africa.

       Production.  The  Company  focuses  its efforts  towards  maximizing  its
average  daily  production  of oil,  NGL and gas through  development  drilling,
production  enhancement  activities and  acquisitions  of producing  properties.
During  2000,  1999 and 1998,  the  Company's  average  daily  oil,  NGL and gas
production decreased primarily as a result of oil and gas property  divestitures
that were supportive of the Company's debt reduction  goals.  Production,  price
and cost information with respect to the Company's  properties for each of 2000,
1999 and 1998 is set forth  under  "Item 2.  Properties  - Selected  Oil and Gas
Information - Production, Price and Cost Data".

        Drilling  Activities.  The  Company  seeks to  increase  its oil and gas
reserves,  production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling
and  by  conducting  other  production  enhancement  activities,  such  as  well
recompletions.  From the beginning of 1998 through the end of 2000,  the Company
drilled  1,168 gross  (852.8 net) wells,  92 percent of which were  successfully
completed as productive  wells, at a total cost (net to the Company's  interest)
of $867.6 million.  During 2000, the Company drilled 296 gross (213.5 net) wells
for a total  cost  (net  to the  Company's  interest)  of  approximately  $232.5
million,  54  percent  of which  was  spent on  development  wells  and  related
facilities.  The  Company's  current  2001  capital  expenditure  budget is $430
million,  which represents a spending  increase of approximately 26 percent over
2000.  The Company has  allocated  the  budgeted  2001 capital  expenditures  as
follows: $315 million to development drilling and facility activities,  and $115
million to exploration activities.

       The  Company   believes  that  its  current   property  base  provides  a
substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve,  production and cash flow
growth.   The  Company's  reserves  as  of  December  31,  2000  include  proved
undeveloped and proved developed  non-producing reserves of 87.2 million Bbls of
oil and NGLs and  419.6  Bcf of gas.  The  timing  of the  development  of these
reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price  environment,  the Company's
expected operating cash flows and the Company's financial condition. The Company
believes that its current portfolio of undeveloped prospects provides attractive
development  and exploration  opportunities  for at least the next three to five
years.

                                       5

<PAGE>



       Exploratory Activities.  Since 1998, the Company has dedicated increasing
percentages  of  its  annual  exploration  and  development  costs  incurred  to
exploratory  projects:  30 percent in 1998, 38 percent in 1999 and 48 percent in
2000.  The  Company's  commitment  to  exploration  has resulted in  significant
discoveries during this time period,  such as the 1998 Sable oil field discovery
in South Africa,  the 1999  Aconcagua and 2000 Devils Tower  discoveries  in the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico and,  during the first quarter of 2001,  the Boomslang
discovery in South Africa (see "Item 2.  Properties  -  International  - Africa"
below.)  During  2001,  the Company  plans to spend a higher  percentage  of its
capital on the development of its high-impact,  Gulf of Mexico projects, such as
the Canyon  Express gas project and Devils Tower oil project,  and the Sable oil
project (see "Item 2.  Properties - Description of  Properties").  Consequently,
the  Company  currently  anticipates  that its  2001  exploration  efforts  will
comprise 27 percent of total budgeted 2001 expenditures and will be concentrated
domestically  in the  Gulf of  Mexico  and the  onshore  Gulf  Coast  area,  and
internationally  in  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon  and South  Africa.  Exploratory
drilling  involves  greater  risks of dry holes or  failure  to find  commercial
quantities  of  hydrocarbons  than  development  drilling or  enhanced  recovery
activities.  See "Item 1. Business - Risks Associated with Business Activities -
Drilling Activities" below.

       Asset  Divestitures.  The Company regularly reviews its property base for
the purpose of  identifying  non-core  assets,  the  disposition  of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  While the Company generally does
not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions
can  have  the  result  of  furthering  the  Company's  objective  of  financial
flexibility through reduced debt levels.

       During 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company's  divestitures  consisted of the
sale of oil and gas  properties  and other  assets  for net  proceeds  of $102.7
million,  $420.5  million (of which $390.5  million was cash proceeds) and $21.9
million,  respectively,  which resulted in a 2000 net divestiture  gain of $34.2
million  and 1999 and 1998 net  divestiture  losses  of $24.2  million  and $445
thousand,  respectively.  The assets that the Company  divested during 2000 were
primarily  comprised of an  investment in a  non-affiliated  entity and non-core
United  States  oil and gas  properties  located  in  Oklahoma,  New  Mexico and
Louisiana.  The Company's 1999  divestitures  were comprised of non-core  United
States and Canadian oil and gas properties,  gas plants and other assets. United
States asset divestitures  comprised 86 percent, or $361.2 million, of the total
1999 proceeds from the  divestiture  of oil and gas  properties;  and,  Canadian
asset divestitures  comprised 14 percent,  or $59.3 million of the 1999 proceeds
from the divestiture of oil and gas  properties.  The net cash proceeds from the
2000 and 1999 asset  dispositions were used to reduce the Company's  outstanding
bank   indebtedness   and,  during  1998,  the  net  cash  proceeds  from  asset
dispositions were used to provide funding for a portion of the Company's capital
expenditures,  including  purchases of oil and gas  properties  in the Company's
core areas. See Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific  information
regarding the Company's asset divestitures.

       The  Company  anticipates  that it will  continue  to sell  non-strategic
properties from time to time to increase capital  resources  available for other
activities, to achieve operating and administrative  efficiencies and to improve
profitability.

       Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties
that   complement  its   operations,   provide   exploration   and   development
opportunities  and  potentially  provide  superior  returns  on  investment.  In
addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company
to expand into new  geographical  areas that feature  producing  properties  and
provide  exploration/exploitation   opportunities.   During  2000,  the  Company
expended  $67.2 million to acquire  proved and unproved oil and gas  properties.
Strategic  acquisitions of proved  properties  during 2000 included  incremental
working  interests in the United States Gulf of Mexico discovery at Devils Tower
and the Canadian  Chinchaga  field. The Company also acquired an interest in the
Camden  Hills Gulf of Mexico  discovery  during 2000.  During 1999,  the Company
acquired  Argentine  proved and unproved oil and gas properties  that complement
its existing operations in Argentina. The Company paid $38.8 million of cash for
the  Argentine  assets  during the fourth  quarter of 1999, of which amount $2.5
million  was  cash  consideration  paid  for  unproved  Argentine  oil  and  gas
properties.

       The Company  regularly  evaluates and pursues  acquisition  opportunities
(including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related
assets;  entities  owning  oil  and  gas  properties  or  related  assets;  and,
opportunities   to  engage  in  mergers,   consolidations   or  other   business
combinations  with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages
of  evaluating  such  opportunities.  Such  stages may take the form of internal

                                       6

<PAGE>



financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence,  the submission
of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations,  negotiation of a letter
of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement.

Operations by Geographic Area

       The Company operates in one industry segment. During 2000, 1999 and 1998,
the  Company  principally  had oil and gas  producing  activities  in the United
States,  Argentina  and Canada;  and, had  exploration  activities in the United
States Gulf Coast area, the Gulf of Mexico, Argentina,  Canada, South Africa and
Gabon.  See Note O of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data" for geographic  operating
segment information, including results of operations and segment assets.

Marketing of Production

       General.  Production from the Company's properties is marketed consistent
with  industry  practices.  Sales  prices for oil,  NGL and gas  production  are
negotiated  based on factors  normally  considered in the industry,  such as the
spot price for gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance from
the well to the pipeline, well pressure,  estimated reserves,  commodity quality
and prevailing supply conditions.

       Significant  Purchasers.  During 2000, the Company's primary purchaser of
oil was ExxonMobil Corporation  ("ExxonMobil"),  the Company's primary purchaser
of natural  gas  liquids  was  Williams  Energy  Services  ("Williams")  and the
Company's   primary  purchaser  of  gas  was  Anadarko   Petroleum   Corporation
("Anadarko").  Approximately  eight  percent,  13 percent and six percent of the
Company's 2000 combined oil, NGL and gas revenues were  attributable to sales to
ExxonMobil,  Williams and Anadarko,  respectively. The Company is of the opinion
that the loss of any one  purchaser  would  not have an  adverse  effect  on its
ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production.

       Hedging  Activities.  The  Company  periodically  enters  into  commodity
derivative  contracts  (swaps and  collars) in order to (i) reduce the effect of
the  volatility of price  changes on the  commodities  the Company  produces and
sells, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans
and (iii) lock in prices to protect  the  economics  related to certain  capital
projects.  See  "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Company's  hedging
activities,  "Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative  Disclosures  About Market
Risk" and Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a  description  of the
Company's open hedge positions at December 31, 2000 and related prices.

Competition, Markets and Regulation

       Competition.  The oil and gas  industry  is highly  competitive.  A large
number  of  companies  and  individuals   engage  in  the  exploration  for  and
development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition
for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions
of oil and gas  properties  have  been an  important  element  of the  Company's
growth,  and the Company  intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties.
The principal  competitive  factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties
include the staff and data necessary to identify,  investigate and purchase such
properties  and the financial  resources  necessary to acquire and develop them.
Many of the Company's  competitors are  substantially  larger and have financial
and other resources greater than those of the Company.

       Markets.  The  Company's  ability  to  produce  and  market  oil  and gas
profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control.  The effect
of these factors  cannot be accurately  predicted or  anticipated.  Although the
Company  cannot  predict  the  occurrence  of events that may affect oil and gas
prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices  will be  affected,  the prices
for any oil or gas that the Company produces will generally  approximate current
market prices in the geographic region.

       Governmental   Regulation.   Oil  and  gas   exploration  and  production
operations are subject to various types of regulation by local,  state,  federal
and  foreign  agencies.  The  Company's  operations  are also  subject  to state
conservation laws and regulations,  including  provisions for the unitization or
pooling  of  oil and  gas  properties,  the  establishment of  maximum  rates of

                                       7

<PAGE>



production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of
wells.  Each state generally  imposes a production or severance tax with respect
to production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. The
regulatory  burden on the oil and gas industry  increases the Company's  cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

       Additional  proposals and  proceedings  that might affect the oil and gas
industry  are  considered  from time to time by  Congress,  the  Federal  Energy
Regulatory   Commission,   state  regulatory  bodies,  the  courts  and  foreign
governments.  The Company  cannot  predict when or if any such  proposals  might
become effective or their effect, if any, on the Company's operations.

       Environmental and Health Controls.  The Company's  operations are subject
to numerous federal,  state, local and foreign laws and regulations  relating to
environmental and health protection.  These laws and regulations may require the
acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities
and  concentration  of  various   substances  that  can  be  released  into  the
environment  in connection  with drilling and  production  activities,  limit or
prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness,  wetlands
and other  protected  areas and impose  substantial  liabilities  for  pollution
resulting  from oil and gas  operations.  These  laws and  regulations  may also
restrict  air  emissions or other  discharges  resulting  from the  operation of
natural gas processing  plants,  pipeline  systems and other facilities that the
Company owns.  Although the Company believes that compliance with  environmental
laws and regulations  will not have a material  adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial  condition,  risks of substantial  costs and liabilities
are  inherent  in oil and gas  operations,  and there can be no  assurance  that
significant costs and liabilities,  including potential criminal penalties, will
not be  incurred.  Moreover,  it is possible  that other  developments,  such as
stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or
persons  resulting  from the Company's  operations,  could result in substantial
costs and liabilities.

       The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard
to fault or the legality of the original conduct,  on certain classes of persons
with respect to the release of a  "hazardous  substance"  into the  environment.
These persons  include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where
the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of
hazardous  substances  released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible
for  releases of hazardous  substances  under CERCLA may be subject to joint and
several  liability  for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous  substances  that
have been released into the  environment  and for damages to natural  resources,
and it is not uncommon for  neighboring  landowners  and other third  parties to
file claims for personal  injury and  property  damage  allegedly  caused by the
hazardous substances released into the environment.

       The  Company  generates  wastes,  including  hazardous  wastes,  that are
subject to the federal  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery  Act  ("RCRA") and
comparable state statutes. The U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency and various
state  agencies  have  limited  the  approved  methods of  disposal  for certain
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the
Company's oil and gas  operations  that are currently  exempt from  treatment as
"hazardous  wastes" may in the future be designated  as "hazardous  wastes," and
therefore  be  subject  to more  rigorous  and  costly  operating  and  disposal
requirements.

       The  Company  currently  owns or  leases,  and has in the  past  owned or
leased,  properties  that for many years have been used for the  exploration and
production of oil and gas.  Although the Company has used operating and disposal
practices that were standard in the industry at the time,  hydrocarbons or other
wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or
leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been
taken for disposal. In addition,  some of these properties have been operated by
third parties whose  treatment and disposal or release of  hydrocarbons or other
wastes was not under the  Company's  control.  These  properties  and the wastes
disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA,  RCRA and analogous state laws. Under
such laws,  the  Company  could be required  to remove or  remediate  previously
disposed  wastes or  property  contamination  or to  perform  remedial  plugging
operations to prevent future contamination.

       Federal  regulations  require  certain  owners or operators of facilities
that  store or  otherwise  handle  oil,  such as the  Company,  to  prepare  and
implement spill  prevention  control plans,  countermeasure  plans, and facility
response  plans relating to the possible  discharge of oil into surface  waters.
The Oil Pollution  Prevention Act of 1990  ("OPA") amends  certain provisions of

                                        8

<PAGE>



the federal Water  Pollution  Control Act of 1972,  commonly  referred to as the
Clean Water Act ("CWA"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of
and response to oil spills into  navigable  waters.  The OPA subjects  owners of
facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup
costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited
to,  the costs of  responding  to a release of oil to  surface  waters.  The CWA
provides  penalties  for any  discharges  of  petroleum  products in  reportable
quantities and imposes substantial  liability for the costs of removing a spill.
OPA requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial
responsibility  to cover removal costs and damages  resulting from an oil spill.
OPA calls for a  financial  responsibility  of $35  million  to cover  pollution
cleanup for offshore  facilities.  State laws for the control of water pollution
also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of
releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground.
The Company  does not believe  that the OPA,  CWA or related  state laws are any
more  burdensome  to it than they are to other  similarly  situated  oil and gas
companies.

       Many states in which the Company operates have recently begun to regulate
naturally  occurring  radioactive  materials  ("NORM")  and NORM wastes that are
generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production  activities.
NORM wastes  typically  consist of very low-level  radioactive  substances  that
become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations
may require the testing of pipes and  production  equipment  for the presence of
NORM, the licensing of NORM-contaminated facilities and the careful handling and
disposal of NORM wastes.  The Company  believes  that the growing  regulation of
NORM will have a minimal effect on the Company's  operations because the Company
generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis.

       The Company does not believe that its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the
future,  result in a  curtailment  of  production  or  processing  or a material
increase in the costs of production,  development,  exploration or processing or
otherwise  adversely  affect the Company's  results of operations  and financial
condition.

       The  Company   employs  an   environmental   manager  and   environmental
specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. The
Company  performs an  environmental  review as part of the due diligence work on
potential  acquisitions,  including acquisitions of oil and gas properties.  The
Company is not aware of any material  environmental  legal  proceedings  pending
against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject.

Risks Associated with Business Activities

       The nature of the business  activities  conducted by the Company subjects
it to certain  hazards  and  risks.  The  following  is a summary of some of the
material risks relating to the Company's business activities.

       Commodity Prices. The Company's  revenues,  profitability,  cash flow and
future rate of growth are highly  dependent on prices of oil and gas,  which are
affected by numerous  factors beyond the Company's  control.  Oil and gas prices
historically have been very volatile.  A resumption of the significant  downward
trend in oil and gas prices  experienced  in 1998, as compared to 2000 and 1999,
would have a material  adverse effect on the Company's  revenues,  profitability
and cash flow and could, under certain  circumstances,  result in a reduction in
the carrying  value of the Company's oil and gas  properties  and an increase in
the Company's deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

          Drilling Activities.  Drilling involves numerous risks,  including the
risk that no commercially  productive gas or oil reservoirs will be encountered.
The cost of drilling,  completing  and  operating  wells is often  uncertain and
drilling  operations  may be  curtailed,  delayed or  canceled  as a result of a
variety of  factors,  including  unexpected  drilling  conditions,  pressure  or
irregularities in formations,  equipment failures or accidents,  adverse weather
conditions  and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment.  The Company's
future  drilling  activities may not be successful  and, if  unsuccessful,  such
failure  could  have an  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  future  results  of
operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or
exploratory,  involves these risks,  exploratory drilling involves greater risks
of dry holes or failure to find commercial  quantities of hydrocarbons.  Because
of the  percentage  of the  Company's  capital  budget  devoted  to  exploratory
projects, it is likely that the Company will continue to experience  exploration
and abandonment expense.

                                       9

<PAGE>




       Unproved  Properties.  At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company carried
unproved  property  costs of $229.2  million and $257.6  million,  respectively.
United  States  generally  accepted   accounting   principles  require  periodic
evaluation of these costs on a  project-by-project  basis in comparison to their
estimated  value.  These  evaluations will be affected by results of exploration
activities,  commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all
or a portion of the leases,  contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects.
If the quantity of potential  reserves  determined  by such  evaluations  is not
sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project,  the Company will
recognize  non-cash  charges in the earnings of future periods.  During 1999 and
1998, the Company recognized non-cash impairment provisions of $17.9 million and
$147.3  million,  respectively,  to reduce the  carrying  value of its  unproved
properties (see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data").

       Acquisitions.  Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been
a key element of the Company's  growth.  The Company's growth following the full
development  of its existing  property  base could be impeded if it is unable to
acquire  additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of
any  acquisition  will depend on a number of factors,  including  the ability to
estimate  accurately  the  recoverable  volumes  of  reserves,  rates of  future
production  and future  net  revenues  attributable  to  reserves  and to assess
possible  environmental  liabilities.  All of these  factors  affect  whether an
acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable
return  on  investment.  Even  though  the  Company  performs  a  review  of the
properties  it seeks to acquire  that it believes is  consistent  with  industry
practices, such reviews are often limited in scope.

       Divestitures.  The Company  regularly  reviews its property  base for the
purpose of  identifying  non-strategic  assets,  the  disposition of which would
increase   capital   resources   available  for  other   activities  and  create
organizational  and operational  efficiencies.  Various factors could materially
affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non-strategic assets,  including
the availability of purchasers  willing to purchase the non-strategic  assets at
prices acceptable to the Company.

       Operation of Natural Gas Processing  Plants. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company owns interests in nine natural gas  processing  plants and four treating
facilities.  The  Company  operates  six of the  plants  and all  four  treating
facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural
gas  processing  plants.  Gas and natural gas liquids are volatile and explosive
and  may  include  carcinogens.  Damage  to or  misoperation  of a  natural  gas
processing  plant or facility  could result in an explosion or the  discharge of
toxic gases,  which could  result in  significant  damage  claims in addition to
interrupting a revenue source.

       Operating  Hazards and Uninsured  Losses.  The Company's  operations  are
subject to all the risks normally  incident to the oil and gas  exploration  and
production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and
other  environmental  damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to
the Company due to injury or loss of life,  damage to or  destruction  of wells,
production facilities or other property,  clean-up responsibilities,  regulatory
investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.  Although the Company
currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers  reasonable and that is
similar to that maintained by comparable  companies in the oil and gas industry,
it is not fully  insured  against  certain of these risks,  either  because such
insurance is not available or because of high premium costs.

       Environmental.  The oil and gas business is also subject to environmental
hazards,  such as oil spills,  gas leaks and  ruptures and  discharges  of toxic
substances or gases that could expose the Company to  substantial  liability due
to pollution and other  environmental  damage.  A variety of federal,  state and
foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas
business.  Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company
to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost
of the Company's operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs
of acquisitions.  See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets and Regulation -
Environmental and Health Controls".

       The Company does not believe that its environmental  risks are materially
different  from  those  of  comparable  companies  in the oil and gas  industry.
Nevertheless,  no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not
result in a curtailment  of  production or processing or a material  increase in
the  costs of  production,  development,  exploration or processing or otherwise

                                      10

<PAGE>



adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. Pollution and
similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.

       Debt Restrictions and Availability. The Company is a borrower under fixed
term senior notes and a line of credit.  The terms of the  Company's  borrowings
under the senior notes and the line of credit specify  scheduled debt repayments
and  require  the  Company  to comply  with  certain  associated  covenants  and
restrictions.  The Company's  ability to comply with the debt  repayment  terms,
associated  covenants  and  restrictions  is dependent  on, among other  things,
factors outside the Company's direct control, such as commodity prices, interest
rates and  competition  for  available  debt  financing.  See Note D of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Company's outstanding debt and
the terms associated therewith.

       Competition.  The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company
competes with other  companies,  producers and operators for acquisitions and in
the exploration,  development,  production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of
these competitors have substantially  greater financial and other resources than
the Company. See "Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulation".

       Government Regulation.  The Company's  business is regulated by a variety
of federal,  state,  local and  foreign  laws and  regulations.  There can be no
assurance  that  present or future  regulations  will not  adversely  affect the
Company's business and operations. See "Item 1. Business - Competition,  Markets
and Regulation".

       International  Operations. At December 31, 2000, approximately 22 percent
of the Company's  proved  reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the
United States (17 percent in  Argentina,  four percent in Canada and one percent
in South Africa). The success and profitability of international  operations may
be  adversely  affected  by  risks  associated  with  international  activities,
including  economic  and  labor  conditions,  political  instability,  tax  laws
(including United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value
of the United States  dollar versus the local  currency in which oil and gas are
sold.  To the extent that the Company is involved in  international  activities,
changes  in  exchange  rates may  adversely  affect the  Company's  consolidated
revenues and expenses (as expressed in United States dollars).

       Estimates of Reserves  and Future Net  Revenues.  Numerous  uncertainties
exist in  estimating  quantities  of proved  reserves  and future  net  revenues
therefrom.  The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set
forth in this  Report are based on  various  assumptions,  which may  ultimately
prove to be inaccurate.  Therefore,  such  estimates  should not be construed as
accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

       The information  included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and
gas reserves at December 31, 2000, including  Standardized  Measure, is based on
proved reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.

       Numerous  uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves
and  in  projecting  future  rates  of  production  and  timing  of  development
expenditures,  including many factors beyond the Company's control.  This Report
contains  estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related
future net revenues,  which are based on various  assumptions,  including  those
prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production,  oil and gas prices,  revenues,
taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities
of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in
the estimates and could materially  affect the estimated  quantities and related
Standardized  Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report.  In addition,
the Company's  reserves may be subject to downward or upward  revisions based on
production  performance,  purchases  or sales of  properties,  results of future
development,  prevailing  oil and  gas  prices  and  other  factors.  Therefore,
estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed
as  accurate  estimates  of the current  market  value of the  Company's  proved
reserves.

       Standardized  Measure is a reporting  convention  that  provides a common
basis for comparing oil and gas companies  subject to the rules and  regulations
of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas prices  prevailing as of the date
of computation.  Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received

                                       11

<PAGE>



or that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price  fluctuations
or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any date are not
necessarily indicative of future results of operations.  Accordingly,  estimates
included herein of future net revenues may be materially  different from the net
revenues that are ultimately received.

       The  Company  did not  provide  estimates  of  total  proved  oil and gas
reserves during 2000 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.

Proved Reserves

       The Company's  proved reserves  totaled 628.2 million BOE at December 31,
2000,  605.5  million BOE at December 31, 1999 and 676.8 million BOE at December
31,  1998,   representing   $5.6   billion,   $2.9  billion  and  $1.6  billion,
respectively,  of  Standardized  Measure.  The four  percent  increase in proved
reserves in 2000 was primarily  attributable to the Company's successful capital
investments,  while the 93 percent increase in Standardized  Measure during 2000
was primarily due to increases in commodity  prices.  The divestiture of oil and
gas properties,  partially offset by upward revisions of reserve quantities as a
result of increases in commodity prices, was the primary reason for the decrease
in reserves during 1999.

       On a BOE basis,  77 percent of the  Company's  total  proved  reserves at
December 31, 2000 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as
of  December  31,  2000,  and  using the  Company's  reserve  report  production
information  for  2001,  the  reserve-to-production  ratio  associated  with the
Company's  proved  reserves  is 14 years on a BOE  basis.  The  following  table
provides  information  regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily
production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2000.
<TABLE>

            PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION
                                                                                  2000 Average
                        Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2000                 Daily Production (a)
                   ---------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------
                      Oil        Natural                 Standardized     Oil        Natural
                    & NGLs         Gas                      Measure      & NGLs        Gas
                    (MBbls)      (MMcf)        MBOE          (000)       (Bbls)       (Mcf)        BOE
                   ---------    ---------    --------    ------------    -------    ---------    --------
<S>                <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>             <C>        <C>          <C>

United States....    266,802    1,354,327     492,523    $ 4,716,455      46,099      229,316      84,318
Argentina........     35,843      408,282     103,890        507,362       9,374       97,526      25,628
Canada...........      4,066      132,919      26,219        414,535       1,670       44,315       9,056
South Africa.....      5,552          -         5,552          7,150         -            -           -
                   ---------    ---------    --------     ----------     -------    ---------    --------
Total............    312,263    1,895,528     628,184    $ 5,645,502      57,143      371,157     119,002
                   =========    =========    ========     ==========     =======    =========    ========
- ----------------
(a)  The 2000 average daily  production  is calculated  using a 366-day year and
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the year.

</TABLE>

Reserve Replacement

       During 2000,  the Company's  proved  reserves  increased by 22.7 MMBOE as
compared to a decline of 71.4 MMBOE  during  1999.  The  Company's  additions to
proved reserves during 2000 were comprised of 27.5 MMBOE of upward  revisions to
previous  estimates,  38.0 MMBOE of new discoveries and extensions and 7.4 MMBOE
of asset  purchases.  Proved reserves  declined by 50.1 MMBOE during 2000 due to
current year production of 43.6 MMBOE and asset  divestitures of 6.6 MMBOE.  The
positive  revisions  of 2000 were split  between  changes in estimates of future
quantities   available  for  production  and  changes  in  estimates  of  future
quantities  from  improved  commodity  prices.  The Company  added 91.1 MMBOE of
proved reserves during 1999 from revisions of previous  estimates of 74.4 MMBOE,
purchases of  minerals-in-place  of 7.3 MMBOE and new discoveries and extensions
of 9.4 MMBOE.  Proved  reserve  reductions  during 1999 were  comprised of 111.4
MMBOE from asset  divestitures and 51.1 MMBOE of 1999  production.  The positive
impact of revisions in 1999 primarily resulted from improved commodity prices as
compared to December  31, 1998  prices.  The  downward  revisions in 1998 relate
primarily to the lower commodity  prices as of December 31, 1998, as compared to
December 31, 1997. The Company's reserves as of December 31, 2000 were estimated
using the WTI Cushing,  Oklahoma  spot oil price of $26.69 per Bbl and the Henry
Hub,  Louisiana gas spot price of $9.95 per Mcf,  resulting in average  realized
prices of $25.71 per Bbl of oil, $16.74 per Bbl of NGLs and $7.50 per Mcf of gas

                                       12

<PAGE>



after normal quality,  gathering and transportation  adjustments.  The Company's
reserves as of December 31, 1999 were estimated using the WTI Cushing,  Oklahoma
spot oil price of $25.60 per Bbl and the Henry Hub,  Louisiana gas spot price of
$2.33 per Mcf,  resulting in average  realized  prices of $24.33 per Bbl of oil,
$17.59 per Bbl of NGLs and $1.83 per Mcf of gas after normal quality,  gathering
and  transportation  adjustments.  As  prices  increase  or  decrease  in future
periods, reserves will be revised upward or downward for quantities which become
economical or uneconomical to produce under the new price assumptions.

       During 2000, the Company replaced 167 percent of its annual production on
a BOE basis (196 percent for oil and NGLs and 140 percent for gas). During 1999,
the Company  replaced 178 percent of its annual  production  on a BOE basis (262
percent for oil and NGLs and 99 percent for gas).  The  Company's  2000 and 1999
reserve replacement were primarily impacted by the increase in commodity prices.
On a BOE basis, the Company's 1998 reserve  replacement rate was negative due to
severe  declines  in  commodity   prices  which  resulted  in  downward  reserve
revisions.

Finding Cost

       The  Company's  acquisition  and finding  costs per BOE for 2000 and 1999
were  $4.66  and  $2.21  per  BOE,  respectively.  During  1998,  the  Company's
acquisition  and finding  costs were  negative.  The negative rate in 1998 was a
result of downward reserve  revisions related to the decline in commodity prices
during 1998. The average  acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period
from 1998 to 2000 was $6.94 per BOE,  representing a 17 percent decline from the
1999 three-year average rate of $8.36.

Description of Properties

       As of December 31, 2000, the Company has operations in the United States,
Argentina and Canada, and exploration opportunities in South Africa and Gabon.

       Domestic.  The Company's  domestic  operations are located in the Permian
Basin, Mid Continent and Gulf Coast areas of the United States. Approximately 86
percent of the Company's  domestic proved reserves are located in the Spraberry,
Hugoton and West  Panhandle  fields.  These mature fields  generate  substantial
operating  cash  flow  and  have  a  portfolio  of  low  risk  infill   drilling
opportunities.  The cash flows  generated from these fields provide  funding for
the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and
internationally.  During 2000, the Company  expended  $119.9 million in domestic
exploration  and  development  drilling  activities.  The Company  has  budgeted
approximately  $260 million for domestic  exploration and  development  drilling
expenditures for 2001.

       Spraberry   field.  The  Spraberry  field  was  discovered  in  1949  and
encompasses  eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately  150 miles
long and 75 miles  wide at its  widest  point.  The oil  produced  is West Texas
Intermediate  Sweet,  and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average Btu
content  of  1,400  Btu  per  Mcf.  The oil and  gas  are  produced  from  three
formations,  the upper and lower  Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from
6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry  field was unitized in the
late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late
1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the
Company has focused on acquisition  and development  drilling  activities in the
unitized  portion of the  Spraberry  field due to the dormant  condition  of the
properties and the high net revenue  interests  available.  The Company believes
the area offers excellent  opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because
of the hundreds of  undeveloped  infill  drilling  locations  and the ability to
reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.

       During 2000, the Company placed 86 Spraberry wells on production, drilled
one  developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 2000, had 40 wells in progress.
The Company plans to drill approximately 140 additional wells in 2001.

       Hugoton  field.  The  Hugoton  field in  Southwest  Kansas  is one of the
largest  producing  gas  fields in the  continental  United  States.  The gas is
produced  from the Chase and Council  Grove  formations  at depths  ranging from
2,700  feet  to  3,000  feet.  The  Company's   Hugoton   properties   represent
approximately  13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on
approximately  257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres),  covering  approximately
400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells

                                       13

<PAGE>



in the Hugoton field, 985 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in
approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and
processing facilities,  primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production
from the  Hugoton  field.  Such  ownership  allows the  Company  to control  the
production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.

       Production  in the Hugoton  field is subject to  allowables  set by state
regulators,  but the Company's  Hugoton  operated wells are capable of producing
approximately  150 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead
before  processing and before  reduction for royalties).  The Company  estimates
that it and other  major  producers  in the  Hugoton  field  produced at or near
capacity in 2000.  During 2000, the Company  completed two development  wells in
the  Hugoton  field.  The  Company  plans  to  drill  approximately  25  Hugoton
development wells in 2001.

       The  Company  is  planning  to  submit  an   application  to  the  Kansas
Corporation   Commission  to  allow  infill  drilling  into  the  Council  Grove
Formation.  The  Company  believes  that such  infill  drilling  could  increase
production  from its  Hugoton  properties.  There can be no  assurance  that the
application  will be filed or approved,  or as to the timing of such approval if
granted.

       West Panhandle  field.  The West Panhandle  properties are located in the
panhandle  region of Texas where  initial  production  commenced in 1918.  These
stable,  long-lived  reserves are  attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and  fractured  Granite  formations at depths no greater than 3,500
feet. The Company's gas in the West  Panhandle  field has an average Btu content
of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is produced from  approximately  600 wells on more than
241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles.  The Company's
wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle  field contains a high quantity of
NGLs,  yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from many other gas
fields.  The Company  operates the wells and  production  equipment and Colorado
Interstate  Gas Company (a subsidiary of El Paso Energy Corp.) owns and operates
the gathering system.  The production from the West Panhandle field is processed
through the Company-owned Fain natural gas processing plant.

       During 2000,  the Company placed 51 new wells on production and has three
additional  wells in progress at December 31, 2000.  The Company  plans to drill
approximately 59 wells in 2001.

       Other  domestic  properties.  In the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast areas,
the  Company  is focused on reserve  and  production  growth  through a balanced
portfolio of development and  exploration  activities.  To accomplish  this, the
Company has devoted most of its domestic  exploration efforts to these areas, as
well as its  investment in and  utilization  of 3-D seismic  technology.  During
2000,  the  Company  expended  $82.9  million  to  drill 17  development  and 13
exploratory  wells in the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf  Coast  areas.  The  Company's
development of the Canyon Express gas project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico is
progressing  as planned,  with first  production  anticipated  in mid-2002.  The
Company also expects to begin development of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico Devils
Tower project during 2001,  with first oil  production  expected in late 2002 or
early  2003.  The  Company  has  budgeted  approximately  $66  million  of  2001
development  capital for the Canyon Express and Devils Tower  projects.  Also in
the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  the  Company-operated  well  at  Eugene  Island  208 was
successfully  completed  with multiple oil and gas pays and tested at a combined
gross rate of  production  of 1,250  barrels of oil per day and 950 Mcf per day.
The Company has a 75 percent working interest in Eugene Island 208. During 2000,
the Company also announced the completion of the High Island Block 582 A#4 well,
which  encountered  over 230 feet of pay. The Company has a 5.5 percent  working
interest  in the High Island  Block 582 A #4 well,  which was drilled to a total
depth of 15,147 feet.

       In the East  Texas  Bossier  gas  play,  the  Company  expects  to invest
approximately  $37  million  of  2001  capital  to  drill  25  operated  and  12
non-operated  wells.  Additionally,  in the South  Texas  Gulf Coast  area,  the
Company's  exploitation  efforts in the Pawnee field have  increased  production
from the field by over 135 percent since December 1999, to approximately 26 MMcf
per day in  December  2000.  Utilizing  advanced  3-D  seismic  modeling in this
Edwards Reef play, the Company has completed eight horizontal reentries and four
new horizontal wells. Five new wells and two horizontal  reentries are scheduled
for 2001 in the Edwards  Reef.  The Company is also  expanding  its Edwards Reef
development  program to include  surrounding fields that could add a significant
number of new locations.

       International.  The Company's international operations are located in the
Neuquen Basin and Tierra del Fuego areas of Argentina and the Chinchaga,  Martin
Creek and  Rycroft/Spirit River areas of Canada.  Additionally,  the Company has

                                       14

<PAGE>



entered into  agreements to explore for oil and gas reserves in South Africa and
Gabon.  Approximately 17 percent,  four percent and one percent of the Company's
proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and South Africa, respectively.

       Argentina.  The Company's  Argentine  properties are primarily located in
the Neuquen and Austral  basins.  The  Company's  share of Argentine  production
during  2000  averaged  25.6 MBOE  per day, or  approximately  22 percent of the
Company's equivalent production.

       The Company's  operated  production in Argentina is  concentrated  in the
Neuquen  Basin which is located  about 925 miles  southwest  of Buenos Aires and
just to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from
the Loma Negra/NI Block,  the Dadin Block,  the Al Norte de la Dorsal Block, the
Neuquen  del  Medio  Block,  the Al Sur de la  Dorsal  Block  and  the  Estacion
Fernandez Oro Block in which the Company has 100 percent working interests.  The
Company acquired its working  interests in the Al Sur de la Dorsal Block and the
Estacion Fernandez Oro Block during 1999.

       The  production  concession in the Austral basin is located in Tierra del
Fuego,  which  is an  island  in the  extreme  southern  portion  of  Argentina,
approximately  1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires. Oil, gas and NGLs are produced
from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest.
Production  increases are  anticipated  from the area through  exploitation  and
exploration   and  improving  the  oil  and  gas   processing   facilities   and
infrastructure  on the  island.  Currently,  production  is  being  sent  to the
mainland  through oil tankers and gas  pipelines  and exported to Chile  through
pipelines.

       During 2000, the Company expended $62.8 million on Argentine  exploration
and development  activities and drilled 30 development  wells and 54 exploratory
wells in Argentina,  of which 28 development wells and 38 exploratory wells were
successful.  The Company plans to spend approximately $87 million on oil and gas
development and exploration opportunities in Argentina during 2001.

       Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily
in Alberta and British  Columbia,  Canada.  Production  during 2000 averaged 9.1
MBOE per  day,  or  approximately  eight  percent  of the  Company's  equivalent
production.  The Company  continues to focus its  development,  exploration  and
acquisition  activities  in the core areas of  northeast  British  Columbia  and
northwest  Alberta.  The core Canadian assets are  geographically  concentrated,
predominantly  shallow  gas and more than 90 percent  operated by the Company in
the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Rycroft/Spirit River.

       Production  from the Chinchaga areas is relatively dry gas from formation
depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area,  production is relatively
dry gas from  various  reservoirs  ranging  from 3,700 feet to 4,300  feet.  The
Rycroft/Spirit  River area produces  primarily oil and consists of four unitized
waterfloods  producing  from  reservoir  depths ranging from 4,400 feet to 5,000
feet.

       During 2000, the Company  expended $34.1 million on Canadian  exploration
and development  activities and drilled 21 development  wells and 14 exploratory
wells primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which 17 development
wells and 12 exploratory  wells were successful.  Effective October 1, 2000, the
Company  increased  its  interest to 100 percent in its  Chinchaga  gas field in
northeast  British  Columbia  by  acquiring  the  remaining  13 percent  working
interest.  The Company added production of 475 BOE per day from this acquisition
and plans to drill as many as 70 extension and infill  drilling  locations  over
the next three years. The Company, as operator,  plans to drill approximately 19
development  wells and 26  exploratory  wells in Canada during 2001. The Company
expects to participate in an additional  seven wells operated by other companies
in the  same  areas.  The  Company  plans to spend  $35  million  on oil and gas
development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2001.

       Africa.  The  Company  has entered  into  agreements  to explore in South
Africa and Gabon. The South African agreements cover over 13 million acres along
the  southern  coast of South  Africa,  generally  in water depths less than 650
feet.  During 2000, the Company  expended $15.7 million of exploration  drilling
and  seismic  capital in South  Africa  and Gabon.  The  Company  drilled  three
exploratory wells in South Africa during 2000, of which one was unsuccessful and
two were in progress as of December 31, 2000. During 1999, the Company performed

                                       15

<PAGE>



and analyzed seismic studies  necessary for the analysis,  ranking and timing of
prospects in South Africa and Gabon. During 1998, five wells were drilled by the
Company in South Africa, of which two discovered reserves.

       During  January  2001,  the Company  announced  a discovery  on the E-DQ1
"Boomslang"  prospect,  encountering over 100 feet of net pay,  consisting of an
oil leg under a gas column at a depth of 6,600  feet.  The  Company's  test of a
portion of the oil leg interval  flowed at rates up to 3,120 Bbls of oil per day
and 2.6 MMcf of gas per day over a 48-hour  period.  The Company is also testing
the  overlying  gas  column  which,  over a five day  period,  was  flowing at a
constant rate of  approximately  24 MMcf per day and 300 Bbls of condensate  per
day. An appraisal  well is also planned on the Boomslang  prospect  during 2001.
The Company has budgeted capital to begin  development of the Sable oil field in
South Africa  during 2001 with first  production  expected in late 2002 or early
2003. In Gabon, the Company plans to spud an exploratory well on its Olowi Block
during the second  quarter of 2001.  During  2001,  the  Company  plans to spend
approximately $28 million on exploration and development  opportunities in South
Africa and Gabon.

Selected Oil and Gas Information

       The following  tables set forth selected oil and gas  information for the
Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998.
Because  of  normal  production   declines,   increased  or  decreased  drilling
activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures,  the
historical  information  presented below should not be interpreted as indicative
of future results.

       Production,   Price  and  Cost  Data.  The  following  table  sets  forth
production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

<TABLE>
                       PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)

                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                      2000                                  1999                                 1998
                     ------------------------------------  ------------------------------------  -----------------------------------
                      United                                United                                United
                      States  Argentina  Canada    Total    States  Argentina  Canada    Total    States  Argentina  Canada   Total
                     -------  ---------  ------  --------  -------  ---------  -------  -------  -------  ---------  ------  -------
<S>                  <C>      <C>        <C>     <C>       <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>        <C>     <C>
Production information:
 Annual production:
  Oil (MBbls).......   8,989     3,238      308    12,535   11,448     2,352     1,654   15,454   15,167     3,072    3,315   21,554
  NGLs (MBbls)......   7,883       193      303     8,379    8,714       217       306    9,237   10,160       228      281   10,669
  Gas (MMcf)........  83,930    35,695   16,219   135,844  106,094    34,477    17,886  158,457  137,741    26,801   19,371  183,913
  Total (MBOE)......  30,861     9,380    3,314    43,555   37,845     8,315     4,941   51,101   48,284     7,767    6,824   62,875
 Average daily production:
  Oil (Bbls)........  24,561     8,847      841    34,249   31,366     6,443     4,530   42,339   41,555     8,415    9,082   59,052
  NGLs (Bbls).......  21,538       527      829    22,894   23,875       594       839   25,308   27,835       626      770   29,231
  Gas (Mcf)......... 229,316    97,526   44,315   371,157  290,670    94,457    49,003  434,130  377,373    73,427   53,072  503,872
  Total (BOE).......  84,318    25,628    9,056   119,002  103,686    22,780    13,536  140,002  132,285    21,279   18,697  172,261
Average prices:
  Oil (per Bbl)..... $ 22.07   $ 29.09   $27.50   $ 24.01  $ 15.03    $18.41   $ 13.28  $ 15.36  $ 13.96    $11.00   $10.96  $ 13.08
  NGLs (per Bbl).... $ 20.05   $ 22.91   $24.32   $ 20.27  $ 11.61    $11.30   $ 12.62  $ 11.64  $  8.86    $ 9.83   $ 9.54  $  8.90
  Gas (per Mcf)..... $  3.50   $  1.19   $ 2.88   $  2.81  $  2.17    $ 1.10   $  1.82  $  1.90  $  2.01    $ 1.09   $ 1.45  $  1.82
  Revenue (per BOE). $ 21.04   $ 15.03   $18.85   $ 19.58  $ 13.28    $10.07   $ 11.81  $ 12.62  $ 11.99    $ 8.40   $ 9.83  $ 11.32
Average costs:
 Production costs
 (per BOE):
  Lease operating... $  2.45   $  2.30   $ 2.53   $  2.42  $  2.02    $ 2.04   $  3.02  $  2.11  $  2.31    $ 2.57   $ 3.56  $  2.47
  Taxes:
    Production......     .99       .30      -         .77      .49       .16       -        .39      .50       .15      -        .40
    Ad valorem......     .41       -        -         .29      .41       -         -        .31      .50       -        -        .39
  Field fuel........    1.01       -        -         .71      .28       -         -        .21      .23       -        -        .18
  Workover..........     .17       -        .42       .15      .09       -         .34      .10      .14       -        .10      .12
                      ------    ------    -----    ------   ------     -----    ------   ------   ------     -----    -----   ------
     Total.......... $  5.03   $  2.60   $ 2.95   $  4.34  $  3.29    $ 2.20   $  3.36  $  3.12  $  3.68    $ 2.72   $ 3.66  $  3.56
 Depletion expense
   (per BOE)........ $  3.95   $  5.56   $ 7.58   $  4.57  $  4.06    $ 4.68   $  5.18  $  4.27  $  4.96    $ 5.42   $ 5.95  $  5.13
- ---------------
(a)  These amounts  represent the Company's  historical  results from operations
     without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions,  divestitures or
     drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
</TABLE>

                                       16

<PAGE>




       Productive Wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive
oil and gas wells  attributable  to the Company's  properties as of December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998.

<TABLE>
                              PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)

                                     Gross Productive Wells      Net Productive Wells
                                    ------------------------   ------------------------
                                      Oil      Gas    Total      Oil      Gas    Total
                                    ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
<S>                                 <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
Year ended December 31, 2000:
   United States..................   3,411      191    3,602    2,047      115    2,162
   Argentina......................     575      211      786      434      154      588
   Canada.........................      95      234      329       45      175      220
                                    ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
      Total.......................   4,081      636    4,717    2,526      444    2,970
                                    ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======
Year ended December 31, 1999:
   United States..................   3,835    2,244    6,079    2,558    1,736    4,294
   Argentina......................     514      199      713      376      142      518
   Canada.........................     157      196      353       66      135      201
                                    ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
      Total.......................   4,506    2,639    7,145    3,000    2,013    5,013
                                    ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======
Year ended December 31, 1998:
   United States..................   6,280    4,130   10,410    3,578    2,443    6,021
   Argentina......................     443      158      601      298      103      401
   Canada.........................   1,719      454    2,173      715      241      956
                                    ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
      Total.......................   8,442    4,742   13,184    4,591    2,787    7,378
                                    ======   ======   ======   ======   ======   ======
- ---------------
(a)  Productive   wells  consist  of  producing   wells  and  wells  capable  of
     production,  including  shut-in wells.  One or more completions in the same
     well bore are  counted as one well.  Any well in which one of the  multiple
     completions  is an oil  completion  is  classified  as an oil  well.  As of
     December  31, 2000,  the Company  owned  interests  in 65 wells  containing
     multiple completions.
</TABLE>

       Leasehold  Acreage.  The following table sets forth information about the
Company's  developed,  undeveloped and royalty  leasehold acreage as of December
31, 2000.

<TABLE>
                                LEASEHOLD ACREAGE

                                      Developed Acreage        Undeveloped Acreage
                                   -----------------------   ------------------------   Royalty
                                   Gross Acres   Net Acres   Gross Acres   Net Acres    Acreage
                                   -----------   ---------   -----------   ----------   --------
<S>                                <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 2000:
  United States..................     972,248      586,819       448,039      285,203    259,578
  Argentina......................     670,000      272,000       860,000      655,000        -
  Canada.........................     156,000      104,000       680,000      568,000        -
  South Africa and Gabon.........         -            -      13,813,937   13,513,937        -
                                   ----------    ---------   -----------   ----------   --------
     Total.......................   1,798,248      962,819    15,801,976   15,022,140    259,578
                                   ==========    =========   ===========   ==========   ========
</TABLE>

       Drilling  Activities.  The following table sets forth the number of gross
and net  productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were
drilled and completed  during the years ended December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998.
This information should not be considered indicative of future performance,  nor
should it be assumed  that there is  necessarily  any  correlation  between  the
number  of  productive  wells  drilled  and the oil and gas  reserves  generated
thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of
dry wells.

                                       17

<PAGE>


<TABLE>
                               DRILLING ACTIVITIES

                                         Gross Wells                  Net Wells
                                   ------------------------    ------------------------
                                    Year Ended December 31,     Year Ended December 31,
                                   ------------------------    ------------------------
                                    2000     1999     1998      2000     1999     1998
                                   ------   ------   ------    ------   ------   ------
<S>                                <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>
United States:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................     159      199      385      91.3    131.3    285.9
    Exploratory.................      11        7       18       4.7      4.6     13.4
  Dry holes:
    Development.................       3        1       13       1.9       .8      8.8
    Exploratory.................       3        7        5       1.6      2.7      3.0
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
                                     176      214      421      99.5    139.4    311.1
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
Argentina:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................      28       19       41      26.7     16.6     39.1
    Exploratory.................      38       25       11      37.6     24.1     10.6
  Dry holes:
    Development.................       2        3        5       2.0      3.0      5.0
    Exploratory.................      16        8       11      14.5      6.5      9.7
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
                                      84       55       68      80.8     50.2     64.4
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
Canada:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................      17       34       54      17.9     18.8     37.1
    Exploratory.................      12      -         10       9.9      -        7.2
  Dry holes:
    Development.................       4      -          6       2.5      -        5.4
    Exploratory.................       2        1        4       1.9       .3      3.0
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
                                      35       35       74      32.2     19.1     52.7
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
Other foreign:
  Productive wells:
    Development.................     -        -        -         -        -        -
    Exploratory.................     -        -          2       -        -         .7
  Dry holes:
    Development.................     -        -        -         -        -        -
    Exploratory.................       1      -          3       1.0      -        1.7
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
                                       1      -          5       1.0      -        2.4
                                   -----    -----    -----     -----    -----    -----
    Total.......................     296      304      568     213.5    208.7    430.6
                                   =====    =====    =====     =====    =====    =====
Success ratio (a)...............     90%      93%      92%       88%      94%      92%

- ---------------
(a) Represents those wells that were successfully completed as productive wells.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
       The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells that
were in progress at December 31, 2000.
                                                       Gross Wells   Net Wells
                                                       -----------   ---------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>
United States:
  Development.........................................       48          18.4
  Exploratory.........................................        9           5.9
                                                          -----        ------
                                                             57          24.3
                                                          -----        ------
Argentina:
  Development.........................................        1           1.0
  Exploratory.........................................        1           1.0
                                                          -----        ------
                                                              2           2.0
                                                          -----        ------
Canada:
  Development.........................................        3           2.3
  Exploratory.........................................        5           3.2
                                                          -----        ------
                                                              8           5.5
                                                          -----        ------
South Africa:
  Development.........................................      -             -
  Exploratory.........................................        2           1.4
                                                          -----        ------
                                                              2           1.4
                                                          -----        ------
     Total............................................       69          33.2
                                                          =====        ======
</TABLE>
                                       18

<PAGE>



ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

       The Company is party to various  legal  proceedings,  which are described
under "Legal  actions" in Note G of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included in "Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data". The Company
is also party to other  litigation  incidental to its  business.  The claims for
damages  from such other  legal  actions  are not in excess of 10 percent of the
Company's  current  assets and the Company  believes none of these actions to be
material.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

       The  Company  did not submit any  matters to a vote of  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 2000.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

       The  Company's  common  stock is listed  and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock  Exchange  under the symbol "PXD".  The following
table sets forth, for the periods  indicated,  the high and low sales prices for
the Company's common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite
transactions.  The Company's $575 million credit agreement restricts the Company
from paying or declaring dividends on common stock and certain other payments in
excess of an aggregate $50 million  annually.  The Company's  Board of Directors
did not declare  dividends to the holders of the  Company's  common stock during
1999 or 2000.

<TABLE>
                                                 High           Low
                                               --------       --------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>

2000
   Fourth quarter...........................   $20 5/8        $12 7/16
   Third quarter............................   $16 1/16       $10 5/8
   Second quarter...........................   $15 5/8        $ 9
   First quarter............................   $10 3/4        $ 6 3/4
1999
   Fourth quarter...........................   $11 1/2        $ 7  5/8
   Third quarter............................   $12 13/16      $ 9  3/8
   Second quarter...........................   $13 3/16       $ 7 1/16
   First quarter............................   $ 9 3/4        $ 5
</TABLE>

       On February  20, 2001,  the last  reported  sales price of the  Company's
common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions,
was $17.97 per share.

       As of  February  20,  2001,  the  Company's  common  stock  was  held  by
approximately 23,605 holders of record.

                                       19

<PAGE>



ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

       The following selected consolidated financial data for the Company should
be read in  conjunction  with "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data".
<TABLE>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -----------------------------------------------------
                                                   2000       1999       1998      1997 (a)     1996
                                                 --------   --------   --------   ---------   --------
                                                         (in millions, except per share data)
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Revenues:
    Oil and gas................................  $  852.7   $  644.6   $  711.5   $   536.8   $  396.9
    Natural gas processing.....................       -          -          -           -         23.8
    Interest and other (b).....................      25.8       89.7       10.4         4.3       17.5
    Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net..      34.2      (24.2)       (.4)        4.9       97.1
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
                                                    912.7      710.1      721.5       546.0      535.3
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
  Costs and expenses:
    Oil and gas production.....................     189.3      159.5      223.5       144.2      110.3
    Natural gas processing.....................       -          -          -           -         12.5
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization...     214.9      236.1      337.3       212.4      112.1
    Impairment of properties and facilities....       -         17.9      459.5     1,356.4        -
    Exploration and abandonments...............      87.5       66.0      121.9        77.2       23.0
    General and administrative.................      33.3       40.2       73.0        48.8       28.4
    Reorganization.............................       -          8.5       33.2         -          -
    Interest...................................     162.0      170.3      164.3        77.5       46.2
    Other (c)..................................      67.2       34.7       39.6         7.1        2.5
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
                                                    754.2      733.2    1,452.3     1,923.6      335.0
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
  Income (loss) before income taxes and
    extraordinary item.........................     158.5      (23.1)    (730.8)   (1,377.6)     200.3
  Income tax benefit (provision)...............       6.0         .6      (15.6)      500.3      (60.1)
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item......     164.5      (22.5)    (746.4)     (877.3)     140.2
  Extraordinary item...........................     (12.3)       -          -         (13.4)       -
                                                  -------    -------    -------    --------    -------
  Net income (loss)............................  $  152.2   $  (22.5)  $ (746.4)  $  (890.7)  $  140.2
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
  Income (loss) before extraordinary item
   per share:
    Basic......................................  $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (16.88)  $   3.95
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
    Diluted....................................  $   1.65   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (16.88)  $   3.47
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
  Net income (loss) per share:
    Basic......................................  $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (17.14)  $   3.95
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
    Diluted....................................  $   1.53   $   (.22)  $  (7.46)  $  (17.14)  $   3.47
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
  Dividends per share .........................  $    -     $    -     $    .10   $     .10   $    .10
                                                  =======    =======    =======    ========    =======
  Weighted average basic shares outstanding....      99.4      100.3      100.1        52.0       35.5

Statement of Cash Flows Data:
  Cash flows from operating activities.........  $  430.1   $  255.2   $  314.1   $   228.2   $  230.1
  Cash flows from investing activities.........  $ (194.5)  $  199.0   $ (517.0)  $  (341.2)  $   13.7
  Cash flows from financing activities.........  $ (244.1)  $ (479.1)  $  190.9   $   166.0   $ (245.4)

Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31):
  Working capital (deficit) (d)................  $  (25.1)  $  (13.7)  $ (324.8)  $    46.6   $   26.1
  Property, plant and equipment, net...........  $2,515.0   $2,503.0   $3,034.1   $ 3,515.8   $1,040.4
  Total assets.................................  $2,954.4   $2,929.5   $3,481.3   $ 4,153.0   $1,199.9
  Long-term obligations........................  $1,804.5   $1,914.5   $2,101.2   $ 2,124.0   $  329.0
  Preferred stock of subsidiary................  $    -     $    -     $    -     $     -     $  188.8
  Total stockholders' equity...................  $  904.9   $  774.6   $  789.1   $ 1,548.8   $  530.3
- ---------------
(a) Includes  amounts  relating to the acquisition of Mesa and Chauvco in August
    and December 1997, respectively.
(b) 1999 includes  $41.8 million of option fees and liquidated damages and $30.2
    million of income associated with an excise tax refund.
(c) 2000,  1999 and 1998 include non-cash  mark-to-market charges for changes in
    the fair values of  non-hedge financial instruments of $58.5 million,  $27.0
    million and $21.2 million, respectively.
(d) The  1998  working  capital  deficit  includes  $306.5  million  of  current
    maturities of long-term debt.
</TABLE>

                                       20

<PAGE>



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2000 Performance

       The year ended December 31, 2000 was a highly successful  transition year
for  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company  (the  "Company"),  as compared to the
disciplined  reorganization  years of 1999 and 1998.  During  2000,  the Company
leveraged a highly  favorable  commodity  price  environment  and the  financial
flexibility gained from the austerity measures  implemented during 1999 and 1998
to significantly increase net income, operating cash flows, invested capital and
proved reserves,  while continuing to decrease its outstanding  indebtedness and
repurchase common stock.

       During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company  recorded net income
of $152.2 million ($1.53 per share),  as compared to net losses of $22.5 million
($.22 per share) and $746.4  million  ($7.46 per share)  during the years  ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  Compared to 1999, the Company's 2000
total revenues  increased by $202.6 million,  or 29 percent,  including a $208.1
million,  or 32 percent,  increase in oil and gas revenues.  The increase in oil
and gas revenues was due to commodity  price  increases,  partially  offset by a
decline in production  volumes due to asset  divestitures  completed during 2000
and 1999. During 2000, the Company continued cost management  measures that were
implemented  during 1999 and 1998.  Compared to 1999,  the Company's  2000 total
costs and expenses  increased by $21.0  million,  or three  percent.  The modest
increase in total costs and expenses  included a $32.6 million increase in other
costs  and  expenses,  primarily  comprised  of an  increase  in  mark-to-market
provisions recognized on non-hedge derivative financial instruments. Total costs
and expenses also included increases in production taxes and field fuel expenses
that are sensitive to oil and gas commodity prices.

       During  the year ended  December  31,  2000,  the  Company  grew net cash
provided by operating  activities to $430.1  million,  representing a 69 percent
increase over 1999 net cash provided by operating  activities of $255.2 million,
and a 37 percent increase over 1998 net cash provided by operating activities of
$314.1  million.  During the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company
limited its investments in oil and gas properties to approximately 70 percent of
net cash provided by operating  activities,  as compared to 1998  investments in
oil and gas  properties  which  amounted to 162 percent of net cash  provided by
operating  activities.  The  disciplined  investment  of net  cash  provided  by
operating   activities,   together  with  proceeds  from  the   divestiture   of
non-strategic  assets of $102.7 million and $390.5 million during 2000 and 1999,
respectively, have allowed the Company to reduce its outstanding indebtedness by
$596.5 million during the two years ended December 31, 2000.  Additionally,  the
Company  extended the maturity of its portfolio of indebtedness  during 2000 and
increased  its  liquidity  through the issuance of $425 million of 9-5/8% Senior
Notes due April 1, 2010 (the "9-5/8% Senior  Notes") and the  replacement of the
Company's prior credit facility due August 7, 2002 (the "Prior Credit Facility")
with a new $575  million  credit  agreement  due  March  1,  2005  (the  "Credit
Agreement").

       During  2000,  the Company  increased  its proved  reserves to 628 MMBOE,
reflecting the effects of strategic  acquisitions of properties in the Company's
core  operating  areas and a successful  drilling  program which resulted in the
replacement of 167 percent of the Company's production at a finding, development
and acquisition cost of $4.66 per BOE.

       During the year ended  December 31, 2000, the Company also used a portion
of its net cash  provided by  operating  activities  to  repurchase  2.3 million
shares of the Company's common stock for $27.3 million.  To the extent that cash
flow generated from  operations  exceeds capital  expenditures,  the Company may
continue to make periodic common stock repurchases.

       During 2000,  the Company  expended  $67.2 million to acquire  proved and
unproved oil and gas properties.  Strategic  acquisitions  of proved  properties
included  purchasing  a 33 percent  working  interest in the  deepwater  Gulf of
Mexico Camden Hills discovery,  a four percent  incremental  working interest in
the Company's  deepwater Gulf of Mexico Devils Tower discovery and the remaining
13 percent working interest in the Canadian  Chinchaga field.  Unproved property
acquisitions  were  concentrated  in the Gulf of  Mexico,  East  Texas and North
Louisiana.

                                       21

<PAGE>



       The Company also expended  $232.5 million of drilling and seismic capital
during 2000, representing a 64 percent increase over similar expenditures during
1999. The 2000 drilling capital was expended to drill 296 gross wells (213.5 net
wells), of which 265 gross wells (188.1 net wells) are productive,  representing
a 90 percent success rate. See "Item 2.  Properties" for additional  information
regarding  the  Company's   reserve   replacement,   finding   costs,   property
descriptions and drilling activities.

       The Company's 2000 exploratory  drilling was focused in the United States
Gulf of Mexico, Argentina, Canada and South Africa. The Company drilled 83 gross
exploratory  wells (71.2 net wells) during 2000,  of which 61 gross  exploratory
wells (52.2 net wells) successfully discovered proved oil, NGL and gas reserves,
representing  a 73 percent  success  rate.  In the United  States,  the  Company
expended  $119.9  million  of  drilling  and  seismic  capital  during  2000  to
successfully  complete 11 exploratory wells and 159 development  wells, to drill
three  exploratory  and three  development  dry holes and to begin drilling nine
exploratory and 48 development  wells that remain in progress as of December 31,
2000. In Argentina,  the Company  expended $62.8 million of drilling and seismic
capital during 2000 to  successfully  complete 38 exploratory and 28 development
wells,  to drill 16  exploratory  and two  development  dry  holes  and to begin
drilling one exploratory and one development  well that remain in progress as of
December 31, 2000. In Canada, the Company expended $34.1 million of drilling and
seismic  capital  during 2000 to  successfully  complete 12  exploratory  and 17
development  wells, to drill two exploratory and four  development dry holes and
to begin drilling five  exploratory and three  development  wells that remain in
progress as of December 31, 2000. In Africa,  the Company expended $15.7 million
of drilling and seismic capital to evaluate  drilling  prospects in Gabon and to
drill one South African  exploratory dry hole and two South African  exploratory
wells that remain in progress as of December 31, 2000.

       See "Results of Operations",  below, for more in-depth discussions of the
Company's oil and gas producing activities,  including discussions pertaining to
oil and gas production volumes, prices, hedging activities,  costs and expenses,
capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity.

2001 Outlook

       Commodity  prices.  The  Company's  results of  operations  and financial
condition  in 2001  are  expected  to  continue  to be  positively  affected  by
favorable  commodity  prices as a result of decreases in worldwide oil and North
American  gas  supplies  relative to demand for those  commodities.  Significant
factors  affecting  commodity price outlooks have included the tightening of oil
export quotas during 2000 and 1999 by members of the  Organization  of Petroleum
Exporting  Countries  and other oil  exporting  nations  and the  overall  North
American gas supply and demand  fundamentals.  Although the favorable  commodity
price  environment  presently  impacting the oil and gas industry is expected to
continue  during 2001,  the Company will  continue its debt  reduction  and cost
management  measures  to protect  its net asset  values  from a return to a less
favorable commodity price environment.

       The  Company  will also  continue to monitor  the  commodity  derivatives
market and, from time to time,  utilize oil and gas swap and collar contracts to
reduce the risks of commodity price  volatility.  Through February 20, 2001, the
Company  increased  its  average  daily  2001 oil  production  hedged  with swap
contracts  to 10,597  Bbls with an average  floor  price of $28.94 per Bbl,  and
increased its average daily 2001 gas  production  hedged with swap  contracts to
101,679 Mcf with an average floor price of $4.76 per MMBtu. Through February 20,
2001,  the Company also  entered into swap and collar  contracts to hedge 64,973
Mcf per day of 2002 gas  production  with an  average  floor  price of $4.63 per
MMBtu and, on 20,000 Mcf per day, an average  ceiling  price of $6.00 per MMBtu.
See "Accounting for derivatives" below for a description of the Company's future
hedge accounting procedures.

       First quarter 2001. Based on current estimates,  the Company expects that
its first quarter  worldwide  production will average 112,000 to 114,000 BOE per
day. First quarter  production  costs are expected to rise to $5.70 to $6.15 per
BOE,  primarily as a result of higher  production  taxes and field fuel expenses
that are directly related to higher commodity  prices.  Depreciation,  depletion
and  amortization  expense is expected to average  $4.90 to $5.10 per BOE during
the first quarter of 2001,  and total  exploration  and  abandonment  expense is
expected to be $15 million to $30 million. General and administrative expense is
expected  to be $9 million  to $10  million  during  the first  quarter of 2001.
Interest  expense is expected to be $38 million to $39 million  during the first
quarter of 2001,  including  $3  million of  non-cash  interest.  The  Company's
effective income tax rate is expected to be two percent or less of income before
income taxes.

                                       22

<PAGE>



       Production  outlook.  The Company  expects that its annual 2001 worldwide
production will be  approximately 44 to 45 MMBOE.  Worldwide  production in 2002
and 2003 is  expected to increase as  production  commences  from the  Company's
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico  Canyon  Express gas and Devils Tower oil projects and
the Sable oil  project in South  Africa.  Annual  production  is  expected to be
approximately   48  to  52  MMBOE  during  2002  and  to  further   increase  to
approximately 56 to 60 MMBOE during 2003.

       Capital expenditures.  During 2001, the Company plans to increase capital
expended for oil and gas property  additions to approximately  $430 million,  of
which  approximately  $115  million,  or  27  percent,  has  been  budgeted  for
exploration  expenditures and $315 million, or 73 percent, has been budgeted for
development  drilling and facility  costs.  The  Company's  2001 capital  budget
allocates  approximately 65 percent of capital to the United States,  20 percent
to Argentina, eight percent to Canada and seven percent to Africa. The Company's
2001 capital  budget for the United States  includes $66 million of  development
capital  for the  Canyon  Express  and  Devils  Tower  deepwater  Gulf of Mexico
projects.  During 2001, the Company has planned exploration drilling in the Gulf
of Mexico,  the onshore  Gulf Coast  area,  Argentina,  Canada,  Gabon and South
Africa. The Company has budgeted  exploratory  drilling and seismic expenditures
of  approximately  $55 million for the United  States  areas and $45 million for
international  areas during 2001. The Company will continue to use the excess of
cash provided by operating  activities over capital expenditures for oil and gas
producing  activities to reduce  outstanding  indebtedness,  acquire  additional
interests in core properties and/or repurchase common stock.

       Accounting  for  derivatives.  In June  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting
Standards Board issued  Statement of Accounting  Standards No. 133,  "Accounting
for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), the provisions
of which the Company will adopt effective January 1, 2001.

       SFAS  133  requires  the   accounting   recognition   of  all  derivative
instruments  as  either  assets  or   liabilities  at  fair  value.   Derivative
instruments  that are not hedges  must be  adjusted  to fair value  through  net
income (loss).  Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of
derivative  instruments that are fair value hedges are offset against changes in
the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities,  or firm commitments,  through
net income (loss).  Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are
cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive  income (loss) until such
time as the  hedged  items are  recognized  in net  income  (loss).  Ineffective
portions  of a  derivative  instrument's  change in fair  value are  immediately
recognized in net income (loss).

       The  adoption  of SFAS 133 will  result in a January  1, 2001  transition
adjustment to (i) record the fair value of the Company's derivative  instruments
that qualify for hedge  accounting,  and (ii)  reclassify  deferred hedge losses
within  the  Company's  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet.  Beginning  with the first
quarter of 2001, and quarterly thereafter,  the Company will quantify changes in
the fair values of its derivative instruments and will account for those changes
in accordance with SFAS 133, as described above.

       The January 1, 2001 transition  adjustment will reduce the carrying value
of the  Company's  total assets by $44.6  million and will increase the carrying
value of the Company's liabilities by $153.3 million. As a result, stockholders'
equity will be reduced on January 1, 2001 by $197.9  million.  See Notes B and H
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in "Item 8. Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for additional  information  regarding the
provisions  of SFAS 133 and the  components  of the  Company's  January  1, 2001
transition adjustment.

       Due to the settlement of maturing derivative  contracts and reductions in
gas  prices,  it  is  expected  that  the  SFAS  133  impact  to  the  Company's
stockholders'  equity as of March 31, 2001 will be significantly  lower than the
initial  transition   adjustment  of  $197.9  million,   which  was  based  upon
market-quoted  prices as of  January  1,  2001.  From  January  1, 2001  through
February 20, 2001, the average NYMEX swap price for unexpired 2001 oil contracts
increased by $2.31 per Bbl, or nine  percent,  and the average  NYMEX swap price
for unexpired 2001 gas contracts decreased by $1.21 per MMBtu, or 19 percent. In
general,  the  provisions  of SFAS  133  will  increase  the  volatility  of the
Company's reported consolidated assets,  liabilities,  stockholders' equity, net
income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss).

Results of Operations

       Oil and gas revenues. Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $852.7
million  during  2000,  as  compared  to $644.6  million  during 1999 and $711.5
million during 1998,  representing a 32 percent increase from 1999 to 2000 and a

                                       23

<PAGE>



nine percent  decrease from 1998 to 1999. The revenue increase from 1999 to 2000
is reflective of year-to-year  increases in average reported  commodity  prices,
including  the effects of  commodity  hedges,  of 56 percent,  74 percent and 48
percent for oil,  NGL and gas,  respectively,  partially  offset by a 15 percent
decrease in BOE production. The decline in production was primarily attributable
to asset  divestitures  and  normal  well  production  declines.  Excluding  the
production  associated with assets divested during 2000 and 1999, BOE production
declined  by  approximately  one percent  during  2000 as compared to 1999.  The
revenue decrease from 1998 to 1999 is reflective of a 19 percent decrease in BOE
production,  partially  offset by price increases of 17 percent,  31 percent and
four percent for oil, NGL and gas,  respectively.  The decline in production was
primarily attributable to asset divestitures,  but also reflects the deferral of
oil well  completions  at the end of 1998 and the  beginning  of 1999  until oil
prices recovered, in addition to normal well production declines.  Excluding the
production associated with 1999 and 1998 asset divestitures, production declined
by nine percent during the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to the same
period in 1998.

       The following  table  provides  production and price data relevant to the
analysis of the Company's revenues from oil and gas operations:
<TABLE>
                                                                     Year ended December 31,
                                                                  ------------------------------
                                                                    2000       1999       1998
                                                                  --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                               <C>        <C>        <C>
   Production:
     Oil (MBbls)................................................    12,535     15,454     21,554
     NGLs (MBbls)...............................................     8,379      9,237     10,669
     Gas (MMcf).................................................   135,843    158,457    183,913
     Total (MBOE)...............................................    43,555     51,101     62,875
   Average daily production:
     Oil (Bbls).................................................    34,249     42,339     59,052
     NGLs (Bbls)................................................    22,894     25,308     29,231
     Gas (Mcf)..................................................   371,157    434,130    503,872
     Total (BOE)................................................   119,002    140,002    172,261
   Average reported prices:
     Oil (per Bbl)
       United States............................................  $  22.07   $  15.03   $  13.96
       Argentina................................................  $  29.09   $  18.41   $  11.00
       Canada...................................................  $  27.50   $  13.28   $  10.96
       Worldwide................................................  $  24.01   $  15.36   $  13.08
     NGL (per Bbl)
       United States............................................  $  20.05   $  11.61   $   8.86
       Argentina................................................  $  22.91   $  11.30   $   9.83
       Canada...................................................  $  24.32   $  12.62   $   9.54
       Worldwide................................................  $  20.27   $  11.64   $   8.90
     Gas (per Mcf)
       United States............................................  $   3.50   $   2.17   $   2.01
       Argentina................................................  $   1.19   $   1.10   $   1.09
       Canada...................................................  $   2.88   $   1.82   $   1.45
       Worldwide................................................  $   2.81   $   1.90   $   1.82
     Percentage increase (decrease) in average reported prices:
       Oil......................................................        56         17        (29)
       NGL......................................................        74         31        (29)
       Gas......................................................        48          4        (17)
</TABLE>

       Hedging activities

       The oil and gas prices that the  Company  reports are based on the market
price  received  for the  commodities  adjusted by the results of the  Company's
hedging activities.  The Company utilizes commodity  derivative contracts (swaps
and  collars)  in order to (i)  reduce  the  effect of price  volatility  on the
commodities the Company  produces and sells,  (ii) support the Company's  annual
capital  budgeting and expenditure  plans and (iii) reduce price risk associated
with certain capital  projects.  See Note H of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
information  concerning the Company's open hedge  positions at December 31, 2000
and their related prices.

                                       24

<PAGE>



       Interest  and other  revenue.  The Company  recorded  interest  and other
income  totaling  $25.8 million,  $89.7 million and $10.5 during 2000,  1999 and
1998,  respectively.  The decrease in interest and other income during 2000, and
the  significant  increase  during  1999,  were  primarily   attributable  to  a
non-recurring  excise tax refund of $30.2 million and a non-recurring option fee
of $41.8 million  recognized by the Company  during 1999. See Note J of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for additional information.

       Gain (loss) on disposition of assets.  During 2000, the Company completed
the  divestiture  of certain assets for proceeds of $102.7  million.  Associated
therewith,  the Company  recorded a net gain on  disposition  of assets of $34.2
million during 2000. The 2000 divestitures  included the sale of common stock of
a  non-affiliated  entity  for net  proceeds  of $59.7  million,  from which the
Company recognized a gain on disposition of assets of $34.3 million. The Company
also sold certain oil and gas producing  properties and other assets during 2000
for  proceeds  of $43.0  million,  from which the Company  recognized  a loss on
disposition of assets of $.1 million.

       During 1998,  the Company  announced  measures to increase its  financial
flexibility  and to safeguard  net asset  values.  Those  measures  included the
enhancement of core assets and the divestiture of non-core assets.  During 1999,
the Company completed the asset divestiture phase of the measures.  As a result,
the Company realized net divestment  proceeds from asset  divestitures of $420.5
million during 1999 and recorded an associated net loss on disposition of assets
of $24.2 million.

       The net cash proceeds from asset  divestitures  during 2000 and 1999 were
used to reduce  outstanding  indebtedness.  See Note K of Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures.

       Production  costs.  Total  production  costs per BOE increased in 2000 by
approximately  39 percent and  decreased  in 1999 by  approximately  12 percent.
Lease  operating  expenses and workover  expenses  represent  the  components of
production costs over which the Company has management control, while production
taxes,  ad  valorem  taxes and field  fuel  expenses  are  directly  related  to
commodity  price  changes.  During  2000,  as  compared  to 1999,  per BOE lease
operating  expenses and workover  expenses  increased on a combined  basis by 16
percent while per BOE production taxes, ad valorem taxes and field fuel expenses
increased on a combined  basis by 95 percent.  The increase in 2000 is primarily
due to  significant  increases in those  expenses  that are directly  related to
commodity  price  levels and, to a lesser  extent,  inflation  in field  service
expenses. During 1999, as compared to 1998, per BOE lease operating expenses and
workover  expenses  decreased  on a  combined  basis by 15  percent  and per BOE
production  taxes,  ad valorem  taxes and field  fuel  expenses  decreased  by 6
percent.  The operating margins from the Company's gas plants (i.e., third party
processing  revenues less  processing  costs and expenses) are included in lease
operating expenses,  which resulted in decreases in lease operating expenses per
BOE during  2000 and 1999 of $.34 and $.11,  respectively,  and an  increase  in
lease operating expenses per BOE of $.05 during 1998.
<TABLE>
                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                               ------------------------
                                                2000     1999     1998
                                               ------   ------   ------
                                                       (per BOE)
<S>                                            <C>      <C>      <C>

  Lease operating expenses..................   $ 2.42   $ 2.11   $ 2.47
  Taxes:
    Production..............................      .77      .39      .40
    Ad valorem .............................      .29      .31      .39
  Field fuel expenses.......................      .71      .21      .18
  Workover expenses.........................      .15      .10      .12
                                                -----    -----    -----
        Total production costs..............   $ 4.34   $ 3.12   $ 3.56
                                                =====    =====    =====
</TABLE>

       Depletion  expense.  Depletion  expense per BOE  increased  seven percent
during 2000 (to $4.57 from $4.27 in 1999) and decreased 17 percent in 1999 (from
$5.13 in  1998).  The  increase  in per BOE  depletion  expense  during  2000 is
primarily  due to an increase in the  Company's  Argentine  and Canadian  proved
property basis as a result of reclassifying  unproved  property basis associated
with the Company's exploration and extension drilling success to proved property
and to a higher  proportionate share of the Company's  production being produced
from  Argentina.  The decrease in 1999  depletion  expense per BOE was primarily
attributable to the  positive impact on proved  reserves from improved community

                                       25

<PAGE>



prices and to the impairment of the carrying values of the Company's  proved oil
and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 1998.

       Impairment of oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its oil and gas
producing properties for impairment whenever events or circumstances  indicate a
decline in the  recoverability of the carrying value of the Company's assets may
have occurred.  Declining  commodity  prices in 1998, the Company's  outlook for
future commodity prices and 1998 performance  issues relative to certain oil and
gas properties,  prompted impairment reviews. As a result of these reviews,  the
Company  recognized a non-cash charge of $312.2 million in 1998,  related to its
proved oil and gas properties.

       The Company  periodically  assesses its unproved  properties to determine
whether  they have been  impaired.  An unproved  property may be impaired if the
Company does not intend to drill the prospect as a result of downward  revisions
to potential  reserves,  if the results of exploration or the Company's  outlook
for  future  commodity  prices  indicate  that the  potential  reserves  are not
sufficient to generate net cash flows to recover the investment  required by the
project,  or if the  Company  intends  to sell the  property  for less  than its
carrying value. The Company has assessed its unproved oil and gas properties for
impairment  and,  during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,  recognized
non-cash  impairment charges of $17.9 million and $147.3 million,  respectively,
to reduce the carrying value of its unproved oil and gas properties.

       Exploration   and    abandonments/geological   and   geophysical   costs.
Exploration  and  abandonments/geological  and  geophysical  costs totaled $87.6
million, $66.0 million and $121.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The following  table sets forth the components of
the Company's 2000, 1999 and 1998  exploration and  abandonments/geological  and
geophysical costs:
<TABLE>
                                              United                             Other
                                              States    Argentina    Canada     Foreign    Total
                                             --------   ---------   --------   --------   --------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                          <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>
   Year Ended December 31, 2000:
     Geological and geophysical costs......  $ 22,033   $  6,881    $  2,273   $  7,761   $ 38,948
     Exploratory dry holes.................    11,745      6,987         887      8,396     28,015
     Leasehold abandonments and other......     7,089     11,520       1,971          7     20,587
                                              -------    -------     -------    -------    -------
                                             $ 40,867   $ 25,388    $  5,131   $ 16,164   $ 87,550
                                              =======    =======     =======    =======    =======
   Year Ended December 31, 1999:
     Geological and geophysical costs......  $ 17,207   $  3,399    $    315   $  7,498   $ 28,419
     Exploratory dry holes.................    15,591      3,441         978       (275)    19,735
     Leasehold abandonments and other......     8,427      7,169       2,216          8     17,820
                                              -------    -------     -------    -------    -------
                                             $ 41,225   $ 14,009    $  3,509   $  7,231   $ 65,974
                                              =======    =======     =======    =======    =======
   Year Ended December 31, 1998:
     Geological and geophysical costs......  $ 42,755   $  9,999    $ 14,244   $  3,851   $ 70,849
     Exploratory dry holes.................    15,737      4,426       1,949      9,486     31,598
     Leasehold abandonments and other......    10,771      3,820       4,420        400     19,411
                                              -------    -------     -------    -------    -------
                                             $ 69,263   $ 18,245    $ 20,613   $ 13,737   $121,858
                                              =======    =======     =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

       The increase in 2000 exploration costs, as compared to 1999, is primarily
due to increased  geological and geophysical costs that are supportive of future
exploratory   drilling,   unproved   leasehold   abandonments   associated  with
exploratory  dry  holes  in  Argentina  and  dry  hole  costs   associated  with
exploratory  drilling in South Africa. The decrease in 1999 exploratory costs is
primarily  attributable  to the Company's  curtailed  1999 capital  program,  as
evidenced  by  reductions  in  all  categories  of  exploration,   abandonments,
geological and geophysical  costs as compared to 1998.  Approximately 36 percent
of the Company's 2000 exploration  capital was spent on exploratory  projects as
compared to 31 percent in 1999 and 30 percent in 1998.

         Interest  and  administrative   expenses.   Interest  and  general  and
administrative  expenses were $162.0  million and $33.3  million,  respectively,
during  2000,  as compared to $170.3  million and $40.2  million,  respectively,
during 1999, and $164.3 million and $73.0 million, respectively, during 1998. On
a per BOE basis, interest and general and administrative expenses were $3.72 and
$.76,  respectively,  during 2000, as compared to $3.33 and $.79,  respectively,
during 1999, and $2.61 and $1.16,  respectively,  during 1998.  Interest expense
decreased  during 2000, as compared to 1999,  primarily due to a decrease in the
Company's weighted  average debt  outstanding  for  the year.  This  decline was

                                       26

<PAGE>



offset,  to a certain  extent,  by higher  interest rates in 2000 as compared to
1999. The increase in interest expense during 1999, as compared to 1998, was due
to the higher weighted  average debt balances in 1999. The significant  declines
in  administrative  expense  during  2000 and 1999,  and the decline in interest
expense during 2000, were a direct result of the financial measures taken by the
Company to manage costs and reduce outstanding indebtedness. On a per BOE basis,
interest  expense  increased in 2000 and 1999,  primarily due to higher interest
rates and production declines as a result of asset divestitures.  The decline in
per BOE administrative  expense is due to the reorganization  measures initiated
by  the  Company  during  1998.  Those  reorganization   measures  included  the
centralization  in  Irving,  Texas of  certain  operational  and  administrative
functions  previously  based in Midland,  Texas;  the closings of the  Company's
regional offices in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Corpus Christi, Texas, and Houston,
Texas; workforce reductions; and, other initiatives. As a direct result of those
measures,  the Company  recognized  reorganization  charges of $8.5  million and
$33.2  million  during  1999  and  1998,  respectively  (see  Note M of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding reorganization costs paid
during 2000, 1999 and 1998, and unpaid  reorganization  costs as of December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998).

       Other  expenses.  Other  expenses  were $67.2  million  during  2000,  as
compared  to $34.7  million  during  1999 and $39.6  million  during  1998.  The
increase  in other  expenses  during  2000,  as  compared  to 1999 and 1998,  is
primarily  attributable to increases in  mark-to-market  provisions on non-hedge
derivative  financial  instruments.  Such mark-to- market provisions during 2000
included $42.0 million  associated  with non-hedge  commodity  derivatives  that
matured in December 2000, $14.6 million associated with the Company's  non-hedge
Btu swap  agreements  and $1.9  million  associated  with a series of  non-hedge
forward  foreign  exchange  swap  agreements  that  matured  in  December  2000.
Mark-to-market  provisions  in  1999  included  $21.2  million  associated  with
non-hedge commodity  derivatives and $11.9 million associated with an investment
in the common stock of a non-affiliated, public entity, partially offset by $5.9
million of  mark-to-market  income  recognized  on a series of  forward  foreign
exchange swap agreements and income of $.2 million associated with the Company's
Btu  swap  agreements.   Other  expense  for  1998  included  $20.5  million  of
mark-to-market   adjustments  of  non-hedge   foreign   currency  and  Btu  swap
agreements,  a $9.6  million  write-off  of deferred  compensation  arising from
change of control  features in the Company's  incentive  plans,  $4.4 million of
other expenses associated with the Company's operations in Argentina and Canada,
and $2.3 million of bad debt expense. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures  About  Market  Risk"  and  Notes C and H of Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" for  specific  disclosures  pertaining  to the  Company's  investments  in
derivative financial instruments.

       Income tax provisions  (benefits).  The Company  recognized  consolidated
income tax  benefits  of $6.0  million  and $.6  million  during  2000 and 1999,
respectively,  and an income tax provision of $15.6 million during 1998. The tax
benefit  in 2000 is  comprised  of a  $10.6  million  deferred  tax  benefit  in
Argentina,  partially offset by $4.6 million of current taxes paid in Argentina.
Due to  uncertainties  regarding the Company's  ability to realize net operating
loss carryovers and tax credit carryovers prior to their scheduled  expirations,
the Company did not recognize  deferred income tax benefits  associated with its
operating  results for 1999 and 1998.  Additionally,  during 1998, the Company's
net loss was impacted by a $271.1  million  valuation  allowance  recognized  to
reduce  the  carrying  value of the  Company's  deferred  tax  assets.  Although
realization is not assured for the Company's  remaining deferred tax assets, the
Company  believes it is more likely than not that they will be realized  through
future taxable earnings or alternative tax planning strategies. However, the net
deferred  tax assets  could be  reduced  further if the  Company's  estimate  of
taxable income in future  periods is  significantly  reduced or alternative  tax
planning  strategies are no longer viable. As a result of this situation,  it is
likely that the  Company's  effective  tax rate in 2001 will be minimal.  If the
Company  recognizes  income before income taxes in 2001,  its effective tax rate
will be reduced to the extent that taxable  earnings are recognized in those tax
jurisdictions  relative  to which the  Company  has  established  its  valuation
allowance.  See Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information  regarding
the Company's income taxes and deferred tax asset valuation reserves.

       Extraordinary  item.  During 2000, the Company  replaced its Prior Credit
Facility that was scheduled to mature August 7, 2002, with the Credit  Agreement
that matures March 1, 2005. Associated therewith, the Company recognized a $12.3
million extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt.

                                       27

<PAGE>



Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

       Capital  commitments.  The  Company's  primary  needs  for  cash  are for
exploration,  development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties,  repayment
of  principal  and  interest on  outstanding  indebtedness  and working  capital
obligations.

       The Company's cash  expenditures  for additions to oil and gas properties
during 2000,  1999 and 1998 totaled  $299.7  million,  $179.7 million and $507.3
million,  respectively.  The $120.0  million,  or 67  percent,  increase in 2000
capital expenditures as compared to the expenditures of 1999 was a result of the
$174.9  million,  or 69  percent,  increase in net cash  provided  by  operating
activities during 2000 as compared to net cash provided by operating  activities
during  1999.  During  1999,  as  compared to 1998,  the  Company  significantly
decreased its capital  expenditures  in support of debt  reduction and financial
management initiatives.

       The Company  strives to maintain its  indebtedness  at moderate levels in
order  to  provide   sufficient   financial   flexibility  to  react  to  future
opportunities.  Therefore,  during both 2000 and 1999,  the Company  limited its
capital  expenditures  for additions to oil and gas  properties to 70 percent of
net cash  provided  by  operating  activities  in order to  further  reduce  its
outstanding  indebtedness.  The Company  expects that cash provided by operating
activities during 2001 will exceed its 2001 capital  expenditure  budget of $430
million.  To the extent  that cash  provided  by  operating  activities  exceeds
capital  expenditures  during 2001,  the Company  intends to further  reduce its
outstanding  debt,  acquire  additional   interest  in  core  properties  and/or
repurchase common stock. The Company budgets its capital  expenditures  based on
projected  internally-generated  cash  flows  and may  adjust  the  level of its
capital  expenditures in response to anticipated  changes in cash flows or other
factors, at the Company's discretion.

       Funding for the Company's working capital obligations is also provided by
internally-generated  cash flow.  Funding for the  repayment  of  principal  and
interest on outstanding debt and the Company's capital  expenditure  program may
be provided by any combination of internally-generated  cash flow, proceeds from
the  disposition of  non-strategic  assets or alternative  financing  sources as
discussed in "Capital Resources" below.

       Capital  resources.  The Company's primary capital resources are net cash
provided  by  operating  activities,  proceeds  from  financing  activities  and
proceeds  from sales of  non-strategic  assets.  The Company  expects that these
resources will be sufficient to fund its capital  commitments  and allow further
debt reductions in 2001.

       Operating  activities.  Net cash provided by operating  activities during
2000,  1999 and 1998 were $430.1  million,  $255.2  million and $314.1  million,
respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2000 increased 69
percent from that of 1999  primarily as a result of favorable  commodity  prices
and cost management  measures.  Net cash provided by operating activities during
1999 decreased 19 percent from that of 1998 primarily as a result of declines in
production volumes due to oil and gas property divestitures, partially offset by
increases in commodity  prices and  decreases in production  and  administrative
costs.  Net cash  provided by operating  activities  during 1999, as compared to
that of 1998,  also  declined  as a  result  of  increases  in  working  capital
associated with operating activities.

       Financing  activities.  On May 31,  2000,  the Company  entered  into the
Credit Agreement with a syndication of banks (the "Banks") that matures on March
1, 2005.  Outstanding borrowings under the $575 million Credit Agreement totaled
$225.0  million as of December  31,  2000.  The Credit  Agreement  replaced  the
Company's Prior Credit Facility that had a maturity date of August 7, 2002.

       During  April  2000,  the  Company  issued the 9-5/8%  Senior  Notes at a
discount  of .353  percent,  resulting  in net  proceeds to the  Company,  after
underwriting  discounts,  commissions and costs of issuance,  of $415.4 million.
The net  proceeds  from the  issuance  of the 9-5/8%  Senior  Notes were used to
reduce  outstanding  borrowings under the Company's Prior Credit  Facility.  The
9-5/8%   Senior  Notes  contain   various   restrictive   covenants,   including
restrictions on the incurrence of additional  indebtedness  and certain payments
defined within the associated indenture.

       At December 31, 2000, the Company has four other outstanding  senior debt
issuances.  Such debt issuances consist of (i) $150 million aggregate  principal
amount of 8-7/8% senior notes due in 2005; (ii) $150 million aggregate principal
amount  of  8-1/4%  senior  notes  due in 2007;  (iii)  $350  million  aggregate
principal  amount of 6-1/2%  senior  notes due in 2008;  and,  (iv) $250 million
aggregate principal amount of 7-1/5% senior notes due in 2028.

                                       28

<PAGE>



       The weighted average interest rate on the Company's  indebtedness for the
year ended  December  31, 2000 was 8.68  percent as compared to 7.81 percent for
the year ended  December 31, 1999 and 7.16  percent for the year ended  December
31, 1998,  taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.  See Note D of
Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" for more specific  information  regarding the
Company's long-term debt as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.

       As the Company  pursues its strategy,  it may utilize  various  financing
sources,  including  fixed  and  floating  rate  debt,  convertible  securities,
preferred  stock or common  stock.  The  Company  may also issue  securities  in
exchange for oil and gas  properties,  stock or other interests in other oil and
gas  companies  or  related  assets.  Additional  securities  may be of a  class
preferred  to common  stock  with  respect  to such  matters  as  dividends  and
liquidation  rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined
by the Company's Board of Directors.

       Sales of non-strategic  assets. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, proceeds from
the  sale  of  non-strategic  assets  totaled  $102.7  million,  $420.5  million
(including $30 million of non-cash  proceeds) and $21.9  million,  respectively.
The Company's 2000 and 1999 asset  divestitures  were comprised of non-strategic
United States and Canadian oil and gas properties,  gas plants and other assets.
The net cash  proceeds  from the 2000 and 1999 asset  divestitures  were used to
reduce the Company's  outstanding  indebtedness  (see  "Results of  Operations",
above,  and Note K of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included in
"Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data").  The proceeds from the
1998 asset divestitures were primarily utilized to provide funding for a portion
of the Company's capital expenditures during 1998.

       Book capitalization and liquidity. Total debt was reduced to $1.6 billion
as of December  31,  2000,  as  compared to total debt of $1.7  billion and $2.2
billion on December 31, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The Company's  total book
capitalization  at December 31, 2000 was $2.5 billion,  consisting of total debt
of $1.6  billion and  stockholders'  equity of $.9  billion.  Consequently,  the
Company's debt to total  capitalization  decreased to 64 percent at December 31,
2000 from 69 percent at December 31, 1999. At December 31, 2000, the Company had
$26.2 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, compared to $34.8 million at
December 31, 1999. The Company's ratio of current assets to current  liabilities
was .88 at December 31, 2000 and .93 at December 31, 1999.

ITEM 7A.     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

       The following quantitative and qualitative  information is provided about
financial  instruments  to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2000
and 1999,  and from which the  Company  may incur  future  gains or losses  from
changes in market interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates,  commodity prices or
common and preferred stock prices.  Although certain  derivative  contracts that
the Company is a party to do not qualify as hedges,  the Company  does not enter
into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes.

Quantitative Disclosures

       Interest rate sensitivity.  The following tables provide information,  in
United  States  dollar  equivalent  amounts,   about  the  Company's  derivative
financial instruments and other financial instruments to which the Company was a
party as of  December  31,  2000 and 1999,  which are  sensitive  to  changes in
interest rates. For debt obligations,  the tables present maturities by expected
maturity dates together with the weighted  average interest rates expected to be
paid on the debt, given current  contractual  terms and market  conditions.  For
fixed rate debt, the weighted  average  interest rate represents the contractual
fixed rates that the Company is obligated to  periodically  pay on the debt; for
variable rate debt, the average interest rate represents the average rates being
paid on the debt projected forward  proportionate to the forward yield curve for
United States treasury securities.

       The accompanying table as of December 31, 2000 also provides  information
about interest rate swap agreements entered into by the Company during 2000. The
interest  rate swap  agreements  hedge the fair  value of the  Company's  8-7/8%
Senior Notes due April 15, 2005.

                                       29

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2000
                                                                                                                         Asset
                                                                                                                      (Liability)
                                        2001       2002       2003       2004       2005    Thereafter      Total     Fair Value
                                     ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  -----------  ----------  ------------
                                                                 (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                                  <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt...............  $    -     $   -      $    -     $    -     $150,000   $1,203,776   $1,353,776  $(1,290,250)(1)
     Weighted average
       interest rate...............      8.10%      8.10%      8.10%      8.10%      8.03%        8.00%
     Variable rate debt............  $    -     $    -     $    -     $    -     $225,000   $      -     $  225,000  $  (225,000)
     Average interest rates........      6.64%      6.27%      6.18%      6.24%      6.31%

Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives (2):
  Notional amount of interest
     rate swap.....................  $150,000   $150,000   $150,000   $150,000   $150,000   $      -     $  150,000  $     6,216
  Fixed interest rate received.....      8.88%      8.88%      8.88%      8.88%      8.88%
  Variable interest rate paid......      7.17%      6.77%      6.67%      6.74%      6.81%
- ---------------
(1) Excludes  $30.9 million of debt  instruments  for which fair values were not
    practicable  to derive  as of  December 31, 2000.
(2) The Company's interest rate hedge derivatives mature on April 15, 2005.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
                            Interest Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative and Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999
                                                                                                             Asset
                                                                                                          (Liability)
                                 2000       2001      2002      2003      2004    Thereafter      Total    Fair Value
                               --------  --------  ---------  --------  --------  -----------  ---------  -----------
                                                          (in thousands except interest rates)
<S>                            <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>
Total Debt:
  U.S. dollar denominated
   maturities:
     Fixed rate debt........   $   828   $   -     $    -     $   518   $   571   $ 919,019    $ 920,936  $(776,230)(1)
     Weighted average
       interest rate........      7.50%     7.50%      7.50%     7.50%     7.50%       7.50%
     Variable rate debt.....   $   -     $   -     $825,000                                    $ 825,000  $(825,000)
     Average interest rates.      7.65%     7.70%      7.65%
- ---------------

(1) Excludes  $23.0 million of debt  instruments  for which fair values were not
    practicable to derive as of December 31, 1999.
</TABLE>

       Foreign exchange rate  sensitivity.  In October and December of 2000, the
Company's   foreign  currency  swaps  matured.   The  following  table  provides
information,  in United States dollar  equivalent  amounts,  about the Company's
derivative financial  instruments that the Company was a party to as of December
31, 1999 and that were sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates.

                                       30

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                        Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity
       Derivative And Other Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999

                                                                             Asset
                                                                          (Liability)
                                                      2000      Total     Fair Value
                                                    --------   --------   ----------
                                                (in thousands except foreign exchange rates)
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
Non-hedge Foreign Exchange
  Rate Derivatives:
    Notional amount of foreign
     currency swaps (1)..........................   $ 72,000   $ 72,000    $ (4,168)
    Fixed Canadian to U.S.
     dollar rate paid............................     1.3606
    Average forward Canadian
     dollar to U.S. dollar
     exchange rate...............................     1.4455
- ---------------

(1) The foreign exchange rate swaps matured in October and December 2000.
</TABLE>

       Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in
United  States  dollar  equivalent  amounts,   about  the  Company's  derivative
financial  instruments  that the Company was a party to as of December  31, 2000
and 1999 and that are sensitive to changes in oil and gas commodity prices.  The
tables  segregate hedge  derivative  contracts from those that do not qualify as
hedges.

       Commodity hedge instruments. The Company currently hedges commodity price
risk with swap and collar contracts. As of December 31, 1999, the Company hedged
commodity price risk with swap contracts,  collar contracts and collar contracts
with short put  options.  Swap  contracts  provide a fixed  price for a notional
amount of sales volumes.  Collar contracts provide a floor price for the Company
on a notional  amount of sales volumes  while  allowing  some  additional  price
participation  if the relevant index price closes above the floor price.  Collar
contracts with short put options differ from other collar contracts by virtue of
the short put option price below which the Company's  realized price will exceed
variable market prices by the long put-to-short put price differential.

       Commodity  non-hedge  instruments.  The Company has entered into Btu swap
contracts  and,  during  1999  through  their  maturity in 2000,  optional  call
contracts. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.  Under the terms
of the Btu swap  contracts,  the  Company  receives  10 percent of the NYMEX oil
price and pays the NYMEX gas price on a notional  13,036 MMBtu daily gas volume.
During  2000,  the  Company  terminated  its  variable  position in the Btu swap
contracts for the 2001 volumes,  but continues to  participate  for 2002 through
2004  volumes.   The  terms  of  the  optional  call   contracts   provided  the
counterparties  with the  option to call  either  notional  oil  volumes  or gas
volumes at specific index prices. Accordingly,  these derivative instruments are
presented in both the accompanying oil and gas tables.

       See  Notes  B, C and H of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
description of the  accounting  procedures  followed by the Company  relative to
hedge  and  non-hedge   derivative   financial   instruments  and  for  specific
information   regarding  the  terms  of  the  Company's   derivative   financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in gas and oil commodity prices.

                                       31

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2000

                                                                                                 Asset
                                                                                              (Liability)
                                                        2001      2002      2003      2004    Fair Value
                                                      -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------
<S>                                                   <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>

Oil Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
    Swap contracts.................................     6,510                                 $   8,819
     Weighted average per Bbl fixed price..........   $ 29.27
    Collar contracts...............................     4,479                                 $  (1,820)
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price...............................   $ 25.15
     Weighted average long put per Bbl
       floor price.................................   $ 20.57
Oil Non-hedge Derivatives (2):
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes under swap
    of NYMEX gas price for 10 percent of
    NYMEX WTI price................................    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $ (25,507)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3)..........   $  4.05   $  4.61   $  4.29   $  4.35
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (3)..........   $ 27.69   $ 24.15   $ 22.21   $ 21.54

- ---------------

(1)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2001.

(2)  Since the oil  non-hedge  derivatives  are sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables.

(3)  The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001
     market quotes,  except for the 2001 prices that represent  locked-in prices
     associated with the Company's Btu swaps.
</TABLE>

                                      32

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                              Oil Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999


                                                                                                         Asset
                                                                                                      (Liability)
                                                      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004    Fair Value
                                                    -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Oil Hedge Derivatives:
  Average daily notional Bbl volumes:
    Swap contracts..............................      9,519                                           $ (5,714)
     Weighted average per Bbl fixed price.......    $ 16.51
    Collar contracts............................        826                                           $   (189)
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price............................    $ 23.00
     Weighted average long put per Bbl
       floor price..............................    $ 19.00
    Collar contracts with short put (1).........      7,000     8,000                                 $ (9,407)
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price............................    $ 20.42   $ 21.57
     Weighted average long put per Bbl
       floor price..............................    $ 17.29   $ 18.44
     Weighted average short put per Bbl price
       below which floor becomes variable.......    $ 14.29   $ 15.44
Oil Non-hedge Derivatives (2):
  Daily notional oil Bbl volumes under
    optional calls sold.........................     10,000                                           $(13,259)
     Weighted average short call per Bbl
       ceiling price............................    $ 20.00
     Average forward NYMEX oil
       price per Bbl (3)........................    $ 24.03
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes under swap
    of NYMEX gas price for 10 percent of
    NYMEX WTI price.............................     13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $(13,218)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3).......    $  2.65   $  2.58   $  2.57   $  2.62   $  2.67
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (3).......    $ 24.03   $ 20.33   $ 18.83   $ 18.27   $ 18.12

- ---------------

(1)  As of  December  31,  2000,  the  counterparties  to the year  2000  collar
     contracts with short puts had the contractual right to extend contracts for
     notional  contract  volumes  of 5,000  Bbls per day  through  year  2001 at
     weighted average per Bbl strike prices of $20.09 for the short call ceiling
     price,  $17.00  for the long put floor  price and  $14.00 for the short put
     price below  which the floor  became  variable.  During  2000,  the Company
     terminated  these extendable  contracts,  recognizing  associated  deferred
     hedge  losses,  and replaced  them with a collar  contract for year 2001 at
     weighted average per Bbl strike prices of $20.09 for the short call ceiling
     price  and  $17.00  for the long put  floor  price.  See Note H of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
     and Supplementary Data".

(2)  Since the oil  non-hedge  derivatives  are sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables.

(3)  The average forward  NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 2, 2000
     market quotes.
</TABLE>
                                        33

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2000

                                                                                            Asset
                                                                                         (Liability)
                                                   2001      2002      2003      2004    Fair Value
                                                 -------   -------   -------   -------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>

Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes (2):
    Swap contracts............................    76,346                                 $ (79,771)
     Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price...   $  4.59
    Collar contracts..........................    54,482                                 $ (67,281)
     Weighted average short call per MMBtu
        ceiling price.........................   $  2.73
     Weighted average long put per MMBtu
        contingent floor price................   $  2.11
Natural Gas Non-hedge Derivatives (3):
  Daily notional MMBtu volumes under
    agreement to swap NYMEX gas price
    for 10 percent of NYMEX WTI price.........    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $ (25,507)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (4).....   $  4.05   $  4.61   $  4.29   $  4.35
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (4).....   $ 27.69   $ 24.15   $ 22.21   $ 21.54
- --------------

(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to connect the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(2)  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item
     8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data" for hedge  volumes and
     weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2001.

(3)  Since the oil  non-hedge  derivatives  are sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables.

(4)  The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001
     market quotes,  except for the 2001 prices that represent  locked-in prices
     associated with the Company's Btu swaps.
</TABLE>
                                       34

<PAGE>


<TABLE>

                          Natural Gas Price Sensitivity
            Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 1999

                                                                                                           Asset
                                                                                                        (Liability)
                                                       2000       2001      2002      2003      2004    Fair Value
                                                     --------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -----------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1):
  Average daily notional MMBtu volumes:
    Swap contracts (2)...........................         328       -      10,000                       $  (5,385)
     Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price......    $   3.00   $   -     $  2.42
    Collar contracts with short puts (3).........      93,814    60,000                                 $  (5,518)
     Weighted average short call per MMBtu
        ceiling price............................    $   2.62   $  2.64
     Weighted average long put per MMBtu
        contingent floor price...................    $   2.07   $  2.25
     Weighted average short put per MMBtu price
        below which floor becomes variable.......    $   1.78   $  1.95
Natural Gas Non-hedge Derivatives (4):
  Daily notional gas MMBtu volumes under
   optional calls sold...........................     100,000                                           $ (13,259)
     Weighted average short call per MMBtu
        ceiling price............................    $   2.75
     Average forward NYMEX gas price per
        MMBtu (5)................................    $   2.65
     Daily notional MMBtu volumes under
        agreement to swap NYMEX gas price
        for 10 percent of NYMEX WTI price........      13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036    13,036   $ (13,218)
     Average forward NYMEX gas prices (5)........    $   2.65   $  2.58   $  2.57   $  2.62   $  2.67
     Average forward NYMEX oil prices (5)........    $  24.03   $ 20.33   $ 18.83   $ 18.27   $ 18.12
- --------------

(1)  To minimize  basis risk,  the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion
     of its gas hedges to connect the index price of the hedging instrument from
     a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production.
     The Company  considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and
     option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been
     presented together with the associated contracts.

(2)  As of December 31, 1999,  certain  counterparties to the swap contracts had
     the  contractual  right to sell year 2001,  2002 and 2003 swap contracts to
     the Company  for  notional  daily  contract  volumes of 49,223,  12,500 and
     10,000 MMBtu per day, respectively, at prices of $2.25, $2.52 and $2.58 per
     MMBtu,  respectively.  During 2000, the Company liquidated these contracts,
     recognizing  associated deferred hedge losses, and entered into a year 2001
     swap  contract for  notional  daily  contract  volumes of 49,223 MMBtu at a
     weighted  average  strike price of $2.25 per MMBtu.  See Note H of Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements
     and Supplementary Data".

(3)  As of December  31, 1999,  54,582 MMBtu per day of year 2000 collar  option
     contracts   with  short  puts  were   extendable   at  the  option  of  the
     counterparties  for a period of one year at  average  per  MMBtu  prices of
     $2.71,  $2.09  and  $1.80  for the  short  call,  long put and  short  put,
     respectively.  As of December  31,  1999,  60,000 MMBtu per day of the year
     2001 collar option  contracts with short puts were extendable at the option
     of the counterparties at average per MMBtu prices of $2.64, $2.25 and $1.95
     for the short call, long put and short put, respectively.  During 2000, the
     Company liquidated these contracts,  recognizing  associated deferred hedge
     losses,  and entered into a year 2001 collar  contract for 54,582 MMBtu per
     day at  weighted  average  per MMBtu  prices  of $2.73  for the short  call
     ceiling  price and $2.11 for the long put floor price.  See Note H of Notes
     to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  included  in  "Item  8.  Financial
     Statements and Supplementary Data".

(4)  Since the oil  non-hedge  derivatives  are sensitive to changes in both oil
     and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and
     the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables.

(5)  The average forward  NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 2, 2000
     market quotes.
</TABLE>
                                       35

<PAGE>



       Other  price  sensitivity.  On  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  owned
2,376.923  shares  of Prize  Energy  Corp.  ("Prize")  six  percent  convertible
preferred stock ("Prize Preferred") having an original liquidation preference of
$30.0 million.  Prior to 2000, Prize was a closely held,  non-public  entity and
the fair  market  value of the Prize  Preferred  was not  readily  determinable.
During 2000,  the common stock of Prize began to publicly  trade on the American
Stock  Exchange and the  Company's  Prize  Preferred  shares were  exchanged for
3,984,197  shares of Prize  common stock  ("Prize  Common").  During  2000,  the
Company  sold  3,370,982  shares of Prize  Common and  received  cash in lieu of
33,964  shares of  preferred  in-kind  dividends  for a combined  total of $59.7
million.  The fair market value of the Company's remaining investment in 613,215
shares of Prize Common was $12.7 million as of December 31, 2000.

Qualitative Disclosures

       Non-derivative  financial  instruments.  The Company is a borrower  under
fixed rate and variable  rate debt  instruments  that give rise to interest rate
risk. The Company's  objective in borrowing under fixed or variable rate debt is
to satisfy capital requirements while minimizing the Company's costs of capital.
To realize its  objectives,  the Company  borrows  under fixed and variable rate
debt  instruments,  based on the availability of capital,  market conditions and
hedge  opportunities.  See Note D of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
included  in  "Item  8.  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for a
discussion relative to the Company's debt instruments.

       As described in "Other price sensitivity" above, the Company owns 613,215
shares of Prize Common.  The Company does not routinely acquire shares of common
stock of publicly traded entities for investment purposes.  The Prize Common was
received by the Company in partial  consideration  for assets  acquired from the
Company by Prize.

       Derivative financial  instruments.  The Company has entered into interest
rate,  foreign exchange rate and commodity price  derivative  contracts to hedge
interest rate,  foreign  exchange rate and commodity  price risks.  Although the
Company is a party to certain derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment and has entered into other derivative contracts in the past
that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment,  the Company's policy is to
limit its participation in derivative contracts to those that, in the opinion of
management, reduce the Company's overall economic risk.

       As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company was a party to the Btu swap
contracts  and as of  December  31,  1999,  it was also a party to the  Canadian
denominated  foreign  exchange rate swap and optional  commodity  calls that are
described more fully in Quantitative Disclosures,  above, and Note H of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary  Data".  These  financial  instruments do not qualify as hedges of
commodity  price  or  foreign  exchange  rate  risk  under  generally   accepted
accounting standards.

       As of December 31, 2000, the Company's primary risk exposures  associated
with  financial  instruments  to which it is a party  include  oil and gas price
volatility and interest rate  volatility.  The Company's  primary risk exposures
associated  with  financial  instruments  have not changed  significantly  since
December 31, 2000.

                                       36

<PAGE>



ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                           Page

Consolidated Financial Statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company:
   Independent Auditor's Report........................................      38
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999........      39
   Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income
       (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.....      40
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
      Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998...........................      41
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998................................      42
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..........................      43
   Unaudited Supplementary Information.................................      71



                                       37

<PAGE>





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pioneer Natural Resources Company:

       We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Pioneer
Natural Resources Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and
the related  consolidated  statements of  operations  and  comprehensive  income
(loss),  stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period  ended   December  31,  2000.   These   financial   statements   are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

       We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

       In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company and  subsidiaries  at December 31, 2000 and
1999, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended  December 31, 2000,  in  conformity  with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.



                                                      Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
January 29, 2001

                                      38

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (in thousands, except share data)

<TABLE>

                                     ASSETS
                                                                              December 31,
                                                                       -------------------------
                                                                           2000         1999
                                                                       -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                    <C>           <C>
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..........................................  $    26,159   $    34,788
  Accounts receivable:
    Trade, net.......................................................      123,497       116,456
    Affiliates.......................................................        2,157         2,119
  Inventories........................................................       14,842        13,721
  Deferred income taxes..............................................        4,800         5,800
  Other current assets...............................................       19,936        10,252
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total current assets...........................................      191,391       183,136
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the successful efforts method
   of accounting:
    Proved properties................................................    3,187,889     2,997,335
    Unproved properties..............................................      229,205       257,583
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortization...............     (902,139)     (751,956)
                                                                        ----------    ----------
                                                                         2,514,955     2,502,962
Deferred income taxes................................................       84,400        83,400
Other property and equipment, net....................................       25,624        43,006
Other assets, net....................................................      138,065       116,969
                                                                        ----------    ----------
                                                                       $ 2,954,435   $ 2,929,473
                                                                        ==========    ==========

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt...............................  $       -     $       828
  Accounts payable:
    Trade............................................................       96,646        86,442
    Affiliates.......................................................        5,629           426
  Interest payable...................................................       38,142        36,045
  Other current liabilities:
    Derivative obligations...........................................       24,957        17,852
    Other............................................................       51,140        55,220
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total current liabilities......................................      216,514       196,813
                                                                        ----------    ----------
Long-term debt, less current maturities..............................    1,578,776     1,745,108
Other noncurrent liabilities.........................................      225,740       169,438
Deferred income taxes................................................       28,500        43,500
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $.01 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized;
    one share issued and outstanding.................................          -             -
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 500,000,000 shares authorized;
    101,268,754 shares issued at December 31, 2000; and
    100,876,789 shares issued at December 31, 1999...................        1,013         1,009
  Additional paid-in capital.........................................    2,352,608     2,348,448
  Treasury stock, at cost; 2,853,107 shares at December 31, 2000
    and 537,206 shares at December 31, 1999..........................      (37,682)      (10,384)
  Accumulated deficit................................................   (1,422,703)   (1,574,884)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income:
    Unrealized gain on available for sale securities.................        8,154           -
    Cumulative translation adjustment................................        3,515        10,425
                                                                        ----------    ----------
      Total stockholders' equity.....................................      904,905       774,614

Commitments and contingencies
                                                                        ----------    ----------
                                                                       $ 2,954,435   $ 2,929,473
                                                                        ==========    ==========

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

                                       39

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                         AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                      (in thousands, except per share data)
<TABLE>

                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                             ----------------------------------
                                                                2000       1999        1998
                                                             ---------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas.............................................   $ 852,738   $ 644,646   $  711,492
  Interest and other......................................      25,775      89,657       10,452
  Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net...............      34,184     (24,168)        (445)
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
                                                               912,697     710,135      721,499
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production..................................     189,265     159,530      223,551
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization................     214,938     236,047      337,308
  Impairment of oil and gas properties....................         -        17,894      459,519
  Exploration and abandonments............................      87,550      65,974      121,858
  General and administrative..............................      33,262      40,241       73,000
  Reorganization..........................................         -         8,534       33,199
  Interest................................................     161,952     170,344      164,285
  Other...................................................      67,231      34,631       39,605
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
                                                               754,198     733,195    1,452,325
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item..     158,499     (23,060)    (730,826)
Income tax benefit (provision)............................       6,000         600      (15,600)
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
Income (loss) before extraordinary item...................     164,499     (22,460)    (746,426)
Extraordinary item - loss on early extinguishment
  of debt, net of tax.....................................     (12,318)        -            -
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
Net income (loss).........................................     152,181     (22,460)    (746,426)

Other  comprehensive  income  (loss):
  Unrealized  gains on  available  for sale
  securities:
     Unrealized holding gains.............................      33,828         -            -
     Less gains included in net income (loss).............     (25,674)        -            -
  Translation adjustment:
     Currency translation adjustment......................      (6,910)      8,358        2,903
     Realized translation adjustment......................         -          (836)         -
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
Comprehensive income (loss)...............................   $ 153,425   $ (14,938)  $ (743,523)
                                                              ========    ========    =========
Income (loss) per share:
  Basic:
     Income (loss) before extraordinary item..............   $    1.65   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)
     Extraordinary item...................................        (.12)        -            -
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
     Net income (loss)....................................   $    1.53   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)
                                                              ========    ========    =========
  Diluted:
     Income (loss) before extraordinary item..............   $    1.65   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)
     Extraordinary item...................................        (.12)        -            -
                                                              --------    --------    ---------
     Net income (loss)....................................   $    1.53   $    (.22)  $    (7.46)
                                                              ========    ========    =========
Weighted average basic shares outstanding.................      99,378     100,307      100,055
                                                              ========    ========    =========

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

                                       40

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
                                                                                               Accumulated Other
                                                                                              Comprehensive Income
                                              Additional            Unearned                -----------------------      Total
                                     Common    Paid-in    Treasury   Compen-   Accumulated  Investment  Translation   Stockholders'
                                      Stock    Capital      Stock    sation      Deficit       Gains    Adjustment       Equity
                                     -------  ----------  --------  ---------  -----------  ----------  -----------   ------------
<S>                                  <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>           <C>
Balance at January 1, 1998.........  $ 1,010  $2,359,992  $    (21) $(16,196)  $  (795,940)   $   -      $    -        $1,548,845

Common stock issued in settlement
  of litigation....................      -           342       -         -             -          -           -               342
Reduction in common stock
  issued for acquisition of
  Chauvco Resources Ltd............       (4)    (11,094)      -         -             -          -           -           (11,098)
Exercise of stock options..........      -             3       -         -             -          -           -                 3
Restricted shares awarded..........        2       3,053       -        (493)          -          -           -             2,562
Tax provision related to
  stock and option awards..........      -        (4,300)      -         -             -          -           -            (4,300)
Purchase of treasury stock.........      -           -     (10,367)      -             -          -           -           (10,367)
Amortization of unearned
  compensation.....................      -           -         -      16,689           -          -           -            16,689
Net loss...........................      -           -         -         -        (746,426)       -           -          (746,426)
Dividends ($.10 per share).........      -           -         -         -         (10,076)       -           -           (10,076)
Other comprehensive income:
  Currency translation adjustment..      -           -         -         -             -          -         2,903           2,903
                                      ------   ---------   -------   -------     --------      ------     -------       ---------
Balance at December 31, 1998.......    1,008   2,347,996   (10,388)      -      (1,552,442)       -         2,903         789,077
                                      ------   ---------   -------   -------    ----------     ------     -------       ---------
Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.........        1         249       -         -             -          -           -               250
Issuance of stock options under
  long-term incentive plan.........      -            25       -         -             -          -           -                25
Restricted shares awarded..........      -           178         4       -             -          -           -               182
Adjustment to dividends............      -           -         -         -              18        -           -                18
Realized translation adjustment....      -           -         -         -             -          -          (836)           (836)
Net loss...........................      -           -         -         -         (22,460)       -           -           (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Currency translation adjustment..      -           -         -         -             -          -         8,358           8,358
                                      ------   ---------   -------   -------    ----------     ------     -------       ---------
Balance at December 31, 1999.......    1,009   2,348,448   (10,384)      -      (1,574,884)       -        10,425         774,614
                                      ------   ---------   -------   -------    ----------     ------     -------       ---------
Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases.........        4       4,160       -         -             -          -           -             4,164
Purchase of treasury stock.........      -           -     (27,298)      -             -          -           -           (27,298)
Net income.........................      -           -         -         -         152,181        -           -           152,181
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available
   for sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings gains......      -           -         -         -             -       33,828         -            33,828
    Gains included in net income...      -           -         -         -             -      (25,674)        -           (25,674)
  Currency translation adjustment..      -           -         -         -             -                   (6,910)         (6,910)
                                      ------   ---------   -------   -------    ----------     ------     -------       ---------
Balance at December 31, 2000.......  $ 1,013  $2,352,608  $(37,682) $    -     $(1,422,703)   $ 8,154    $  3,515      $  904,905
                                      ======   =========   =======   =======    ==========     ======     =======       =========
</TABLE>

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.


                                       41

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE>
                                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                                -------------------------------------
                                                                    2000         1999         1998
                                                                -----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                             <C>           <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss)...........................................  $   152,181   $  (22,460)  $ (746,426)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
       Depletion, depreciation and amortization...............      214,938      236,047      337,308
       Impairment of oil and gas properties...................          -         17,894      459,519
       Exploration expenses, including dry holes..............       66,959       50,030       92,311
       Deferred income taxes..................................      (10,600)         -         18,600
       (Gain) loss on disposition of assets, net..............      (34,184)      24,168          445
       Loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of tax.......       12,318          -            -
       Other noncash items....................................       72,475         (866)      66,300
     Change in operating assets and liabilities:
       Accounts receivable....................................       (7,486)      (7,393)      85,413
       Inventory..............................................       (2,789)        (952)       2,714
       Other current assets...................................       (9,896)      (2,335)          30
       Accounts payable.......................................       26,260      (18,683)     (29,800)
       Interest payable.......................................        2,097        2,851       15,545
       Other current liabilities..............................      (52,177)     (23,067)      12,117
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
       Net cash provided by operating activities..............      430,096      255,234      314,076
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets.........................      102,736      390,531       21,876
  Additions to oil and gas properties.........................     (299,682)    (179,669)    (507,337)
  Other property dispositions (additions), net................        2,445      (11,867)     (31,546)
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
       Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities....     (194,501)     198,995     (517,007)
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt.............................      922,607      355,493      947,180
  Principal payments on long-term debt........................   (1,099,935)    (793,919)    (711,524)
  Payments of other noncurrent liabilities....................      (29,759)     (34,002)     (17,091)
  Purchase of treasury stock..................................      (27,298)         -        (10,367)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs...........................      (13,847)      (6,891)      (7,189)
  Dividends...................................................          -            -        (10,076)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases......        4,164          250          -
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
       Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities....     (244,068)    (479,069)     190,933
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents ....................       (8,473)     (24,840)     (11,998)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents..         (156)         407         (494)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year..................       34,788       59,221       71,713
                                                                 ----------    ---------    ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year........................  $    26,159   $   34,788   $   59,221
                                                                 ==========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                    these consolidated financial statements.

                                       42

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998



NOTE A.     Organization and Nature of Operations

       Pioneer  Natural   Resources   Company  (the  "Company")  is  a  Delaware
corporation  whose  common  stock is listed  and  traded  on the New York  Stock
Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Company was formed by the merger of
Parker & Parsley  Petroleum  Company ("Parker & Parsley") and MESA Inc. ("Mesa")
in August 1997. The Company is an oil and gas exploration and production company
with ownership  interests in oil and gas properties  located  principally in the
Mid Continent,  Southwestern  and onshore and offshore Gulf Coast regions of the
United States and in Argentina, Canada and South Africa.

NOTE B.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

       Principles  of  consolidation.   The  consolidated  financial  statements
include the accounts of the Company and its  majority-owned  subsidiaries  since
their acquisition or formation, and the Company's interest in the affiliated oil
and gas  partnerships  for which it serves as general partner through certain of
its  wholly-owned   subsidiaries.   Investments  in  less  than   majority-owned
subsidiaries where the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence
over the  investee's  operations  are  accounted for by the equity  method.  The
Company  proportionately  consolidates  less than 100  percent-owned oil and gas
partnerships in accordance with industry practice.  The Company owns less than a
20 percent  interest  in the oil and gas  partnerships  that it  proportionately
consolidates.  All material  intercompany  balances and  transactions  have been
eliminated.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  have a readily
determinable  fair value are classified as "trading  securities" if management's
current intent is to hold them for only a short period of time; otherwise,  they
are accounted for as "available-for-sale"  securities.  The Company re-evaluates
the  classification of investments in  non-affiliated  equity securities at each
balance   sheet   date.   The   carrying   value  of  trading   securities   and
available-for-sale  securities  are  adjusted  to fair value as of each  balance
sheet date.  Unrealized  holding gains are recognized for trading  securities in
interest and other  revenue,  and  unrealized  holding  losses are recognized in
other  expense  during  the  periods  in  which  changes  in fair  value  occur.
Unrealized  holding  gains and  losses  are  recognized  for  available-for-sale
securities as credits or charges to stockholders' equity and other comprehensive
income  (loss)  during the  periods in which  changes in fair value  occur.  The
Company did not have any investments in available-for-sale securities during the
years ended December 31, 1999 or 1998.

       Investments  in  non-affiliated  equity  securities  that  do not  have a
readily determinable fair value are measured at the lower of their original cost
or the net realizable value of the investment.

       Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements.  Preparation
of  the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

       Cash  equivalents.  Cash and cash  equivalents  include  cash on hand and
depository accounts held by banks.

       Inventories.  Inventories consist of  lease and well  equipment which are
carried at the lower of cost or market, on a first-in first-out basis.

       Oil and gas properties.  The  Company  utilizes  the  successful  efforts
method of  accounting  for its oil and gas  properties.  Under this method,  all
costs associated with productive wells and  nonproductive  development wells are
capitalized while nonproductive exploration costs and geological and geophysical

                                       43

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


expenditures are expensed.  The Company capitalizes interest on expenditures for
significant  development  projects  until  such  projects  are  ready  for their
intended use.

       The Company accounts for its natural gas processing facilities activities
as part of its oil and gas  properties  for financial  reporting  purposes.  All
revenues and expenses derived from third party gas volumes processed through the
Company's natural gas processing  facilities have been reported as components of
oil and gas production  costs.  The capitalized  costs of natural gas processing
facilities  are included in proved oil and gas properties and are depleted using
the unit-of-production method.

       Capitalized  costs  relating to proved  properties are depleted using the
unit-of-production  method  based  on  proved  reserves  as  determined  by  the
Company's engineers. Costs of significant nonproducing properties,  wells in the
process of being drilled and  development  projects are excluded from  depletion
until such time as the related  project is  developed  and proved  reserves  are
established or impairment is determined.

       Generally,  capitalized costs of individual  properties sold or abandoned
are charged to accumulated  depletion,  depreciation and  amortization  with the
proceeds from the sales of individual  properties credited to property costs; no
gain or loss is recognized until the entire  amortization base is sold. However,
gain or loss is  recognized  from the sale of less than an  entire  amortization
base if the disposition is significant enough to materially impact the depletion
rate of the remaining properties in the amortization base.

       If significant,  the Company  accrues the estimated  future costs to plug
and abandon wells under the unit-of-  production  method. The charge, if any, is
reflected  in  the  accompanying   Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  and
Comprehensive  Income  (Loss) as  abandonment  expense  while the  liability  is
reflected in the accompanying  Consolidated Balance Sheets as other liabilities.
Plugging and abandonment liabilities assumed in a business combination accounted
for as a purchase are recorded at fair value. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the
Company has recognized plugging and abandonment liabilities of $42.0 million and
$44.2 million, respectively.

       The Company reviews its long-lived assets to be held and used,  including
proved oil and gas properties  accounted for under the successful efforts method
of accounting, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
of those assets may not be  recoverable.  An impairment loss is indicated if the
sum of the expected  future cash flows is less than the  carrying  amount of the
assets. In this circumstance,  the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the
amount by which the  carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the  estimated  fair
value of the asset.

       Unproved oil and gas properties  that are  individually  significant  are
periodically  assessed for impairment by comparing their cost to their estimated
value on a  project-by-project  basis.  The  estimated  value is affected by the
results of exploration  activities,  commodity  price  outlooks,  planned future
sales or  expiration  of all or a portion of such  projects.  If the quantity of
potential  reserves  determined by such  evaluations  is not sufficient to fully
recover  the cost  invested  in each  project,  the Company  will  recognize  an
impairment loss at that time by recording an allowance.  The remaining  unproved
oil and gas properties are  aggregated  and an overall  impairment  allowance is
provided based on the Company's historical experience.

       Treasury  stock.  Treasury  stock  purchases  are recorded at cost.  Upon
reissuance,  the cost of treasury shares held is reduced by the average purchase
price per share of the aggregate treasury shares held.

       Environmental.  The Company's environmental  expenditures are expensed or
capitalized depending on their future economic benefit. Expenditures that relate
to an  existing  condition  caused  by past  operations  and that have no future
economic benefits are expensed. Expenditures that extend the life of the related
property  or   mitigate  or   prevent  future  environmental  contamination  are

                                       44

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


capitalized.  Liabilities  are recorded  when  environmental  assessment  and/or
remediation  is  probable  and  the  costs  can be  reasonably  estimated.  Such
liabilities  are  undiscounted  unless  the  timing  of  cash  payments  for the
liability are fixed or reliably determinable.

       Revenue  recognition.   The  Company  uses  the  entitlements  method  of
accounting for oil, natural gas liquids ("NGL") and gas revenues. Sales proceeds
in excess of the Company's entitlement are included in other liabilities and the
Company's  share of sales  taken by others is  included  in other  assets in the
accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  As of December  31, 2000 and 1999,
entitlement  liabilities totaled $19.0 million and $15.5 million,  respectively,
and entitlement assets totaled $33.7 million and $33.0 million, respectively.

       Stock-based  compensation.  The Company accounts for employee stock-based
compensation   using  the  intrinsic  value  method   prescribed  by  Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"
("APB 25").  The Company has reported the  disclosures  required by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No.123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
("SFAS 123") in Note F below.

       Derivatives and hedging. Prior to January 1, 2001, the following criteria
were  required to be met in order for the  Company to account  for a  derivative
instrument  as a hedge of an existing  asset or  liability,  or of a  forecasted
transaction:  an asset,  liability or forecasted  transaction  must have existed
that exposed the Company to price,  interest rate or foreign  exchange rate risk
that was not offset in another asset or  liability;  the  derivative  instrument
must have reduced that price,  interest rate or foreign exchange rate risk; and,
the derivative  instrument must have been designated as a hedge at the inception
of the instrument and  throughout  the hedge period.  Additionally,  in order to
qualify as a hedge,  there must have been clear  correlation  between changes in
the fair value or expected cash flows of the derivative  instrument and the fair
value or expected  cash flows of the hedged asset or  liability,  or  forecasted
transaction, such that changes in the derivative instrument offset the effect of
price, interest rate or foreign exchange rate changes on the exposed items.

       Prior to  January  1,  2001,  gains or losses  realized  from  derivative
instruments  that  qualified  as hedges were  deferred as assets or  liabilities
until the underlying hedged asset, liability or transaction  monetized,  matured
or was otherwise recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. When
recognized  in net income  (loss),  hedge  gains and losses  are  classified  as
components of the commodity prices,  interest or foreign exchange rates that the
derivative  instrument  hedged.  Derivative  instruments that are not hedges are
recorded at fair value, as assets or liabilities.  Changes in the fair values of
non-hedge derivative instruments are recognized as other income or other expense
during  the  periods  in  which  their  fair  values  change.  See  Note H for a
description  of the  specific  types of  derivative  transactions  in which  the
Company participates.

       In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging  Activities" ("SFAS 133") as amended,  the provisions of
which the Company will adopt effective January 1, 2001.

       SFAS  133  requires  the   accounting   recognition   of  all  derivative
instruments  as  either  assets  or   liabilities  at  fair  value.   Derivative
instruments  that are not hedges  must be  adjusted  to fair value  through  net
income (loss).  Under the  provisions of SFAS 133,  changes in the fair value of
derivative  instruments that are fair value hedges are offset against changes in
the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities,  or firm commitments,  through
net income (loss).  Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are
cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive  income (loss) until such
time as the  hedged  items are  recognized  in net  income  (loss).  Ineffective
portions  of a  derivative  instrument's  change in fair  value are  immediately
recognized in net income (loss).

                                       45

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       The  adoption  of SFAS 133 will  result in a January  1, 2001  transition
adjustment  to (i)  reclassify  $57.8  million of deferred  losses on terminated
hedge  positions  from other assets  (including  $11.6  million of other current
assets),  (ii)  increase  other current  assets,  other assets and other current
liabilities by $7.0 million, $6.2 million and $147.1 million,  respectively,  to
record the fair value of open hedge  derivatives,  (iii)  increase  the carrying
value of hedged  long-term  debt by $6.2  million and (iv) reduce  stockholders'
equity by $197.9  million for the net impact of items (i) through  (iii)  above.
The $197.9  million  reduction  in  stockholders'  equity will be reflected as a
transition  adjustment  in other  comprehensive  income  (loss) as of January 1,
2001.

       Foreign  currency  translation.  The  financial  statements of subsidiary
entities  whose  functional  currency  is  not  the  United  States  dollar  are
translated to United States  dollars as follows:  all assets and  liabilities at
year-end exchange rates; revenues, costs and expenses at average exchange rates.
Gains and losses from translating  non-United States dollar denominated balances
are recorded  directly in stockholders'  equity.  Foreign  currency  transaction
gains and losses are included in net loss.

       The  exchange  rates  used  in  the  preparation  of  these  consolidated
financial statements appear below:
<TABLE>

                                                                           December 31,
                                                                      ---------------------
                                                                      2000    1999    1998
                                                                      -----   -----   -----
<S>                                                                   <C>     <C>     <C>

    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Balance Sheets...............  .6671   .6915   .6534
    U.S. Dollar from Canadian Dollar - Statements of Operations.....  .6650   .6700   .6740
</TABLE>

       Reclassifications.  Certain reclassifications  have been made to the 1999
and 1998 amounts to conform to the 2000 presentation.

NOTE C.     Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments

       The following  table  presents the carrying  amounts and  estimated  fair
values of the Company's  financial  instruments as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
(in thousands):
<TABLE>
                                                                 2000                    1999
                                                         --------------------    -------------------
                                                         Carrying     Fair       Carrying    Fair
                                                           Value      Value        Value     Value
                                                         --------   ---------    --------   --------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
Financial assets:
  Investment in non-affiliated entity..................  $ 12,724   $  12,724    $ 30,000   $    -
Financial liabilities - long-term debt:
  Practicable to estimate fair value:
     Line of credit....................................  $225,000   $ 225,000    $825,000   $825,000
     8-7/8% senior notes due 2005......................  $150,000   $ 153,000    $150,000   $149,189
     8-1/4% senior notes due 2007......................  $150,661   $ 148,125    $149,482   $141,903
     6-1/2% senior notes due 2008......................  $348,691   $ 315,000    $348,550   $297,313
     9-5/8% senior notes due 2010......................  $423,577   $ 480,375    $    -     $    -
     7-1/5% senior notes due 2028......................  $249,910   $ 193,750    $249,909   $187,825
  Not practicable to estimate fair value:
     Other long-term debt..............................  $ 30,937   $     -      $ 22,995   $    -
Derivative financial instrument assets (liabilities),
  including off-balance sheet instruments (see Note H):
     Interest rate swaps...............................  $    -     $   6,216    $    -     $    -
     Foreign currency agreements.......................  $    -     $     -      $ (4,168)  $ (4,168)
     Commodity price hedges............................  $(52,253)  $(192,306)   $  1,672   $(26,213)
     Btu swap agreements...............................  $(25,507)  $ (25,507)   $(13,218)  $(13,218)
     Other non-hedge commodity derivatives ............  $    -     $     -      $(13,259)  $(13,259)

</TABLE>

                                       46

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       Cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other current assets,
accounts payable,  interest payable and other current liabilities.  The carrying
amounts approximate fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.

       Investments in  non-affiliated  entity. On December 31, 1999, the Company
owned 2,376.923 shares of Prize Energy Corp.  ("Prize") six percent  convertible
preferred stock ("Prize Preferred") having an original liquidation preference of
$30.0 million.  Prior to February 9, 2000, Prize was a closely held,  non-public
entity  and the  fair  market  value  of the  Prize  Preferred  was not  readily
determinable.  On February 9, 2000,  the common stock of Prize ("Prize  Common")
began to  publicly  trade on the  American  Stock  Exchange.  At that time,  the
Company's Prize  Preferred was exchanged for 3,984,197  shares of Prize Series A
6% Convertible Preferred Stock ("Prize Senior A Preferred").  On March 31, 2000,
the Company and Prize converted the Company's 3,984,197 shares of Prize Senior A
Preferred to 3,984,197  shares of Prize Common,  received cash in lieu of 33,964
shares of preferred  in-kind  dividends and the Company sold to Prize  1,346,482
shares of the Prize Common for a combined  cash total of $18.6  million.  During
2000,  the Company sold an  additional  2,024,500  shares of Prize Common in the
open market for $41.1 million (see Note K for additional  information  regarding
Prize stock  divestitures).  The fair market  value of the  Company's  remaining
investment  in 613,215  shares of Prize Common was $12.7  million as of December
31,  2000 and is  included  in other  assets  in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Balance Sheet.

       Long-term debt. The carrying amount of borrowings  outstanding  under the
Company's  line of credit (see Note D)  approximates  fair value  because  these
instruments  bear interest at variable market rates.  The fair values of each of
the senior note  issuances  were based on quoted market prices for each of these
issues.

       It was not  practicable  to  estimate  the fair  value of  certain of the
long-term  debt  obligations  because quoted market prices are not available and
the  Company  does not have a current  borrowing  rate which  could be used as a
comparable rate for the stated maturities of the obligations.

       Interest rate swaps,  foreign currency swap contracts and commodity price
swap and  collar  contracts.  The fair value of  interest  rate  swaps,  foreign
currency  contracts and commodity price swap and collar  contracts are estimated
from quotes provided by the  counterparties  to these  instruments and represent
the  estimated  amounts  that the  Company  would  expect to  receive  or pay to
terminate  the  agreements.  See  Note H for a  description  of  each  of  these
instruments,  including  whether the  derivative  contract  qualifies  for hedge
accounting treatment or is considered a speculative derivative instrument.

NOTE D.        Long-term Debt

       Long-term debt consisted of the following at December 31, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>

                                                               December 31,
                                                        -------------------------
                                                           2000           1999
                                                        ----------    -----------
                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>

Line of credit.......................................   $  225,000    $  825,000
8-7/8% senior notes due 2005.........................      150,000       150,000
8-1/4% senior notes due 2007 (net of discount).......      150,661       149,482
6-1/2% senior notes due 2008 (net of discount).......      348,691       348,550
9-5/8% senior notes due 2010 (net of discount).......      423,577           -
7-1/5% senior notes due 2028 (net of discount).......      249,910       249,909
Other................................................       30,937        22,995
                                                         ---------     ---------
                                                         1,578,776     1,745,936
Less current maturities..............................          -             828
                                                         ---------     ---------
                                                        $1,578,776    $1,745,108
                                                         =========     =========
</TABLE>

                                       47

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       Maturities  of  long-term  debt at  December  31, 2000 are as follows (in
thousands):

             2001........................................    $      -
             2002........................................    $      -
             2003........................................    $      -
             2004........................................    $      -
             2005........................................    $  375,000
             Thereafter..................................    $1,203,776

       Line of  credit.  On May 31,  2000,  the  Company  entered  into a $575.0
million credit  agreement (the "Credit  Agreement")  with a syndication of banks
(the "Banks") that matures on March 1, 2005.  Outstanding  borrowings  under the
Credit  Agreement  totaled  $225.0  million as of December 31, 2000.  The Credit
Agreement  replaced the Company's  prior  revolving  credit  facility that had a
maturity  date of  August 7, 2002 (the  "Prior  Credit  Facility").  Outstanding
borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility totaled $825.0 million as of December
31, 1999.  Advances under the Credit  Agreement bear interest,  at the option of
the  Company,  based  on (a) a base  rate  equal  to the  higher  of the Bank of
America, N.A. prime rate (9.50 percent at December 31, 2000) or a rate per annum
based  on  the  weighted  average  of  the  rates  on  overnight  Federal  funds
transactions  with  members  of the  Federal  Reserve  System  (6.50  percent at
December  31,  2000),  plus 50  basis  points;  plus a  eurodollar  margin  (the
"Eurodollar Margin") less 125 basis points, (b) a Eurodollar rate, substantially
equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") (6.3987 percent at December
31, 2000), plus a Eurodollar Margin, or (c) a fixed rate (for aggregate advances
not exceeding  $50 million) as quoted by the Banks  pursuant to a request by the
Company.  The Eurodollar Margin is based on a grid of the Company's debt ratings
and ratio of total debt to earnings  before gain or loss on the  disposition  of
assets; interest expense; income taxes; depreciation, depletion and amortization
expense;  exploration  expense and other noncash  expenses (the "Total  Leverage
Ratio").  As of December 31, 2000, the Eurodollar Margin is 125 basis points. As
a result of the early  extinguishment of the Prior Credit Facility,  the Company
recognized an  extraordinary  loss of $12.3  million,  net of taxes,  during the
quarter ended June 30, 2000.

       The  Credit  Agreement  imposes  certain  restrictive  covenants  on  the
Company,  including the maintenance of a Total Leverage Ratio not to exceed 4.00
to 1.00 through  September 30, 2002 and 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter;  maintenance of
an annual ratio of the net present value of the Company's oil and gas properties
to total debt of at least 1.25 to 1.00;  a  limitation  on the  Company's  total
debt; and, restrictions on certain payments.

       Senior  notes.   The  Company's   senior  notes  are  general   unsecured
obligations  ranking equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured
indebtedness  of the Company and are senior in right of payment to all  existing
and future subordinated indebtedness of the Company. In addition, the Company is
a holding  company that  conducts all of its  operations  through  subsidiaries;
consequently,  the senior notes issuances are  structurally  subordinated to all
obligations of its subsidiaries.  Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.  ("Pioneer
USA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary,  has fully and unconditionally  guaranteed the
senior  note  issuances.  See  Note  Q for a  discussion  of  Pioneer  USA  debt
guarantees and  Consolidating  Financial  Statements.  Interest on the Company's
senior notes is payable semi-annually.

       During April 2000,  the Company  issued  $425.0  million of 9-5/8% Senior
Notes Due April 1, 2010 (the "9-5/8%  Senior  Notes").  The 9-5/8%  Senior Notes
were issued at a discount of .353  percent and  resulted in net  proceeds to the
Company,  after underwriting  discounts,  commissions and costs of issuance,  of
$415.4  million.  The net proceeds  from the issuance of the 9-5/8% Senior Notes
were used to reduce  outstanding  borrowings  under the  Company's  Prior Credit
Facility.  The  9-5/8%  Senior  Notes  contain  various  restrictive  covenants,
including restrictions on the incurrence of additional  indebtedness and certain
payments defined within the associated indenture.

       Interest  expense.  The  following  amounts have been charged to interest
expense for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:


                                       48

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

                                                                        2000        1999         1998
                                                                     ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                                                  <C>          <C>          <C>

     Cash payments for interest...................................   $ 147,156    $ 150,929    $ 135,811
     Accretion/amortization of discounts or premiums on loans.....       7,995        8,401       10,688
     Amortization of capitalized loan fees........................       2,769        2,686        1,142
     Net change in accruals.......................................       4,032        8,328       16,644
                                                                      --------     --------     --------
                                                                     $ 161,952    $ 170,344    $ 164,285
                                                                      ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

NOTE E.        Related Party Transactions

       Activities  with  affiliated  partnerships.   The  Company,  through  its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries,   has  in  the  past  sponsored  certain  affiliated
partnerships,   including  44  drilling   partnerships,   three  public   income
partnerships and 13 affiliated employee  partnerships,  all of which were formed
primarily  for the  purpose  of  drilling  and  completing  wells  or  acquiring
producing  properties.  In 1992, the Company discontinued  sponsoring public and
private oil and gas development drilling  partnerships,  income partnerships and
affiliated employee partnerships.

       In December 2000, the Company received the approval of the partners of 13
employee  partnerships  to merge with  Pioneer USA for a purchase  price of $2.0
million.  Of the total purchase price, $317 thousand was paid to current Company
employees.  Additionally,  during 2000, the Company  purchased all of the direct
oil and gas  interests  held by the  Company's  Chairman  of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer for $195 thousand.

       During each of the years 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company formed a Direct
Investment  Partnership for the purpose of permitting  selected key employees to
invest directly,  on an unpromoted basis, in wells that the Company drills.  The
partners in the Direct Investment Partnerships formed in 1994, 1993 and 1992 pay
and receive  approximately  .337  percent,  1.5375  percent  and 1.865  percent,
respectively,  of the costs and revenues  attributable to the Company's interest
in the wells in which  such  Direct  Investment  Partnership  participates.  The
Company discontinued the formation of Direct Investment Partnerships in 1995. In
November  2000,  the Company  exercised  its right  under the Direct  Investment
Partnership  agreements to purchase each partner's  interest in their respective
Direct  Investment  Partnership.  The Company  paid $4.3 million to complete the
purchase, of which $887 thousand was paid to current Company employees.

       The Company,  through a  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  serves as operator of
properties  in  which  it and its  affiliated  partnerships  have  an  interest.
Accordingly,  the  Company  receives  producing  well  overhead,  drilling  well
overhead  and  other  fees  related  to the  operation  of the  properties.  The
affiliated  partnerships also reimburse the Company for their allocated share of
general and administrative charges.

       The  activities  with  affiliated  partnerships  are  summarized  for the
following related party transactions for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
and 1998:
<TABLE>

                                                                     2000     1999     1998
                                                                    ------   ------   ------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
     Receipt of lease operating and supervision charges
        in accordance with standard industry operating
        agreements..............................................    $9,222   $9,059   $9,021
     Reimbursement of general and administrative expenses.......    $1,550   $  744   $  739
</TABLE>

       Prize divestiture.  As further  disclosed in  Note K,  the  Company  sold
certain  oil and gas  properties,  gas plants and other  assets to Prize  during
1999. Associated with these transactions, the Company received $245.0 million of
proceeds, including 2,307.693 shares of Prize Preferred valued at $30.0 million.
The board of directors of Prize is partially  comprised of Mr.  Philip P. Smith,
the Chief Executive Officer;  Mr. Kenneth A. Hersh; and Mr. Lon C. Kile. Messrs.
Smith and Hersh  were  members  of the Board of  Directors  of the  Company  and
resigned  their  positions  with the  Company during the second quarter of 1999.

                                       49

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


Similarly,  Mr. Lon C. Kile resigned his position as Executive Vice President of
the Company to accept the position of President and Chief  Operating  Officer of
Prize. The sale of the assets to Prize was initiated  through an auction process
which,  upon receipt of Prize's initial offer,  was placed under the supervision
of a special independent  committee (comprised of outside directors unrelated to
Prize) of the Company's Board of Directors.  The independent  committee reviewed
and  considered  all offers  presented  to the Company  for the  purchase of the
assets  acquired  by  Prize.  The  Prize  offer  was  approved  by  the  special
independent  committee as being the best offer  presented (see Notes C and K for
information  pertaining to the Company's investment in Prize and the divestiture
of assets to Prize).

       Consulting  fee.  Effective  January 1, 1999, the Company entered into an
amended and restated  agreement with Rainwater,  Inc.,  whereby the Company will
pay Rainwater,  Inc. $300,000 per year and reimburse Rainwater, Inc. for certain
expenses in consideration for certain consulting and financial analysis services
provided to the Company by Rainwater, Inc. and its representatives.  The term of
this  agreement  expires on  December  31,  2003.  During  2000,  1999 and 1998,
consulting  and  financial  analysis  services  provided to the Company  totaled
$300,000,  $325,000  and  $400,000,  respectively,  plus  expenses.  Richard  E.
Rainwater,  who resigned from the Company's  Board of Directors  during 2000, is
the sole shareholder of Rainwater, Inc.

NOTE F.     Incentive Plans

Retirement Plans

       Deferred  compensation  retirement plan. In August 1997, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors approved a deferred compensation  retirement
plan for the officers and certain key employees of the Company. Each officer and
key employee is allowed to contribute up to 25 percent of their base salary. The
Company  will  then  provide  a  matching  contribution  of 100  percent  of the
officer's and key employee's contribution limited to the first 10 percent of the
officer's base salary and eight percent of the key employee's  base salary.  The
Company's  matching  contribution  vests  immediately.  A trust  fund  has  been
established  by the  Company to  accumulate  the  contributions  made under this
retirement plan. The Company's matching  contributions were $611 thousand,  $508
thousand and $742 thousand for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

       401(k) plan. The Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA, Inc.  401(k) Plan (the
"401(k)  Plan") is a defined  contribution  pension plan  established  under the
Internal Revenue Code Section 401. All regular full-time and part-time employees
of Pioneer USA are eligible to  participate  in the 401(k) Plan on the first day
of the month following their date of hire. Participants may contribute an amount
of not less than two  percent  nor more than 12 percent of their  annual  salary
into  the  401(k)  Plan.  Each  participant's   account  is  credited  with  the
participant's  contributions  and an allocation  of the 401(k) Plan's  earnings.
Participants are fully vested in their account balances.

       Matching plan. The Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. Matching Plan (the
"Matching Plan") is a money purchase pension plan which accumulates  benefits to
participants.  All regular  full-time  and  part-time  employees  of Pioneer USA
become  eligible to  participate  in the  Matching  Plan  concurrent  with their
eligibility to  participate in the 401(k) Plan. All Matching Plan  contributions
are  made  in  cash  by  Pioneer  USA  in  amounts  equal  to 200  percent  of a
participant's  contributions  to the 401(k)  Plan that are not in excess of five
percent of the participant's  basic compensation (the "Matching  Contribution").
Each participant's  account is credited with their Matching  Contribution and an
allocation of Matching Plan earnings. Participants proportionately vest in their
account  balances  over a four year  period,  at the end of which they are fully
vested in their account balances. During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
and 1998,  the Company  recognized  compensation  expense of $3.4 million,  $3.1
million and $4.2 million, respectively, as a result of Matching Contributions.

                                       50

<PAGE>

                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


Long-Term Incentive Plan

       In August 1997, the Company's stockholders approved a long-term incentive
plan (the  "Long-Term  Incentive  Plan"),  which  provides  for the  granting of
incentive  awards  in the  form of stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights,
performance  units and restricted stock to directors,  officers and employees of
the Company. The Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum
number of shares of common  stock  equal to 10  percent  of the total  number of
shares of common stock equivalents  outstanding minus the total number of shares
of common stock subject to outstanding  awards that are exercisable on or within
60 days subsequent to the date of calculation under any stock-based plan for the
directors, officers or employees of the Company.

       The following table calculates the number of shares or options  available
for grant under the Company's  Long- Term Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2000
and 1999:
<TABLE>
                                                                                      December 31,
                                                                               -------------------------
                                                                                   2000         1999
                                                                               -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                            <C>           <C>

  Shares outstanding.........................................................   98,415,647   100,339,583
  Outstanding exercisable options............................................    4,355,144     4,289,675
                                                                               -----------   -----------
                                                                               102,770,791   104,629,258
                                                                               ===========   ===========
  Maximum shares/options allowed under the Long-Term Incentive Plan..........   10,277,079    10,462,926
  Less:  Outstanding awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan...................   (5,514,057)   (4,832,412)
         Outstanding options under Mesa 1991 stock option plan...............     (145,976)     (149,547)
         Outstanding options under Mesa 1996 incentive plan..................     (319,998)     (372,855)
         Outstanding options under Parker & Parsley long-term incentive plan.     (530,528)     (887,075)
                                                                               -----------   -----------
  Shares/options available for future grant..................................    3,766,520     4,221,037
                                                                               ===========   ===========
</TABLE>

       Stock option  awards.  The Company has a program of awarding  semi-annual
stock  options to its officers  and  employees  and annual stock  options to its
non-employee  directors,  as part of their  annual  compensation.  This  program
provides  for annual  awards at an exercise  price based upon the closing  sales
price  of the  Company's  common  stock on the day  prior to the date of  grant.
Employee  Stock Option  awards vest over an 18 month or three year  schedule and
provide  a five  year  exercise  period  from each  vesting  date.  Non-employee
directors'  stock  options vest  quarterly  and provide for a five year exercise
period from each vesting  date.  The Company  granted  1,439,035,  1,945,135 and
2,146,553 options under the Long-Term Incentive Plan during 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

       Restricted  stock  awards.  There  were no  restricted  stock  awards  to
employees or  non-employee  directors  during the year ended  December 31, 2000.
During  1999 and 1998,  the Company  awarded an  aggregate  of 6,200  shares and
137,086 shares, respectively,  of restricted stock at an average price per share
of $29.56 in 1999 and $21.13 in 1998.

       Other stock  based  plans.  Prior to the merger with Mesa,  both Parker &
Parsley  and Mesa had  long-term  incentive  plans  (Parker & Parsley  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan,  1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa and the 1996  Incentive Plan of
Mesa) in place that allowed Parker & Parsley and Mesa to grant incentive  awards
similar to the provisions of the Long-Term  Incentive Plan. Upon consummation of
the merger  between Parker & Parsley and Mesa, all awards under these plans were
assumed by the Company with the provision  that no additional  awards be granted
under these plans.

       SFAS  123   disclosures.   The   Company   applies  APB  25  and  related
interpretations  in  accounting  for its stock option  awards.  Accordingly,  no
compensation  expense  has been  recognized  for its  stock  option  awards.  If
compensation expense for the stock option awards had been determined  consistent
with SFAS 123, the  Company's  net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share
would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                       51

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
<TABLE>

                                                        For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                                        --------------------------------
                                                          2000       1999        1998
                                                        --------   --------   ----------
                                                    (in thousands, except per share amounts)
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>

          Net income (loss)..........................   $148,018   $(25,269)   $(775,349)
          Basic net income (loss) per share..........   $   1.49   $   (.25)   $   (7.75)
          Diluted net income (loss) per share........   $   1.48   $   (.25)   $   (7.75)
</TABLE>

       Under SFAS 123, the fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on
the date of grant  using  the  Black-  Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following weighted average assumptions used for grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998:
<TABLE>
                                                        For the Year Ended  December 31,
                                                        -------------------------------
                                                          2000       1999       1998
                                                        --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>

          Risk-free interest rate....................      5.66%      6.59%      5.45%
          Expected life..............................    5 years    6 years    6 years
          Expected volatility........................        50%        48%        36%
          Expected dividend yield....................        -          -         .56%
</TABLE>

       A summary of the  Company's  stock  option plans as of December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, and changes during the years ended on those dates,  are presented
below:
<TABLE>
                                             For the Year Ended     For the Year Ended     For the Year Ended
                                             December 31, 2000      December 31, 1999      December 31, 1998
                                            --------------------   --------------------   ---------------------
                                                        Weighted               Weighted                Weighted
                                             Number      Average    Number      Average    Number       Average
                                            of Shares     Price    of Shares     Price    of Shares      Price
                                            ---------   --------   ---------   --------   ----------   --------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>          <C>
Non-statutory stock options:
  Outstanding, beginning of year.......     6,241,889   $  19.45   4,580,030   $  24.83    3,541,145   $  31.63
    Options granted....................     1,439,035   $  10.32   1,945,135   $   9.10    2,146,553   $  19.22
    Options forfeited..................      (798,058)  $  18.05    (256,576)  $  38.29   (1,106,835)  $  35.75
    Options exercised..................      (372,307)  $  10.78     (26,700)  $   5.81         (833)  $  14.25
                                            ---------              ---------              ----------
  Outstanding, end of year.............     6,510,559   $  18.10   6,241,889   $  19.45    4,580,030   $  24.83
                                            =========              =========              ==========

  Exercisable at end of year...........     3,897,187   $  23.47   4,038,341   $  24.62    3,937,113   $  26.60
                                            =========              =========              ==========

Weighted average fair value of options
  granted during the year..............     $    4.88              $    4.21              $     8.21
                                             ========               ========               =========
</TABLE>

       The following  table  summarizes  information  about the Company's  stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2000:
<TABLE>
                                     Options Outstanding                          Options Exercisable
                  -----------------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------
                       Number         Weighted Average      Weighted                               Weighted
   Range of        Outstanding at        Remaining          Average        Number Exercisable        Average
Exercise Prices   December 31, 2000   Contractual Life   Exercise Price   at December 31, 2000   Exercise Price
- ---------------   -----------------   ----------------   --------------   --------------------   --------------
<S>               <C>                 <C>                <C>              <C>                    <C>

   $   5-11           1,598,810           5.73 years        $   7.83             261,479          $   8.92
   $  12-18           2,459,945           4.88 years        $  14.22           1,183,904          $  15.87
   $  19-26             602,539           3.84 years        $  23.49             602,539          $  23.49
   $  27-30           1,757,291           2.58 years        $  29.63           1,757,291          $  29.63
   $  31-82              91,974           3.31 years        $  45.00              91,974          $  45.00
                      ---------                                                ---------
                      6,510,559                                                3,897,187
                      =========                                                =========
</TABLE>

                                       52

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       During 1998, the Company  recognized $16.7 million of expenses related to
benefits provided under the Long- Term Incentive Plan.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

       During 1997, the Company established an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the
"ESPP") that allows eligible employees to annually purchase Pioneer common stock
at a discounted  price.  Officers of the Company are not eligible to participate
in the ESPP.  Contributions  to the ESPP are limited to 15 percent of employees'
pay  (subject to certain  ESPP limits)  during the nine month  offering  period.
Participants in the ESPP purchase the Company's  common stock at a price that is
15 percent below the closing sales price of the Company's common stock on either
the first day or the last day of each annual offering period,  whichever closing
sales price is lower.

NOTE G.     Commitments and Contingencies

       Severance  agreements.  The Company has entered into severance agreements
with its  officers,  subsidiary  company  officers  and certain  key  employees.
Salaries  and bonuses for the  Company's  officers  are set by the  Compensation
Committee  for the parent  company  officers and the  Management  Committee  for
subsidiary  company  officers  and key  employees.  These  committees  can grant
increases or reductions to base salary at their  discretion.  The current annual
salaries for the parent company  officers,  the subsidiary  company officers and
key employees covered under such agreements total approximately $9.2 million.

       Indemnifications.  The Company has  indemnified its directors and certain
of its officers, employees and agents with respect to claims and damages arising
from  acts or  omissions  taken in such  capacity,  as well as with  respect  to
certain litigation.

       Legal actions.  The Company is party to various legal actions  incidental
to its business, including, but not limited to, the proceedings described below.
The majority of these lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising from
oil and gas leases and ownership  interest  disputes.  The Company believes that
the ultimate disposition of these legal actions will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
resources or future results of operations. The Company will continue to evaluate
its  litigation  matters  on a  quarter-by-  quarter  basis and will  adjust its
litigation  reserves  as  appropriate  to  reflect  the then  current  status of
litigation.

       Masterson.  In February 1992, the current lessors of an oil and gas lease
(the "Gas  Lease")  dated April 30,  1955,  between  R.B.  Masterson  et al., as
lessor,  and Colorado  Interstate Gas Company  ("CIG"),  as lessee,  sued CIG in
Federal  District  Court in Amarillo,  Texas,  claiming  that CIG had  underpaid
royalties due under the Gas Lease.  Under the agreements  with CIG, the Company,
as successor to MESA Inc. ("Mesa"),  has an entitlement to gas produced from the
Gas Lease. In August 1992, CIG filed a third-party complaint against the Company
for any  such  royalty  underpayment  which  may be  allocable  to the  Company.
Plaintiffs  alleged  that the  underpayment  was the  result  of CIG's use of an
improper gas sales price upon which to calculate  royalties  and that the proper
price should have been determined  pursuant to a  "favored-nations"  clause in a
July  1,  1967  amendment  to the  Gas  Lease.  The  plaintiffs  also  sought  a
declaration  by the  court as to the  proper  price  to be used for  calculating
future royalties.

       The  plaintiffs  alleged  royalty  underpayments  of  approximately  $500
million  (including  interest at 10 percent)  dating from July 1, 1967. In March
1995, the court made certain pretrial rulings that eliminated approximately $400
million of the plaintiff's  claims (which related to periods prior to October 1,
1989),  but which also reduced a number of the Company's  defenses.  The Company
and CIG filed  stipulations  with the court  whereby the Company would have been
liable for  between 50 percent  and 60  percent,  depending  on the time  period
covered, of an adverse judgment against CIG for post-February 1988 underpayments
of royalties.

                                       53

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       On March  22,  1995,  a jury  trial  began and on May 4,  1995,  the jury
returned its  verdict.  Among its  findings,  the jury  determined  that CIG had
underpaid  royalties  for the period after  September 30, 1989, in the amount of
approximately    $140,000.    Although   the   plaintiffs    argued   that   the
"favored-nations"  clause  entitled  them to be paid for all of their gas at the
highest price  voluntarily paid by CIG to any other lessor,  the jury determined
that the  plaintiffs  were estopped  from  claiming  that the  "favored-nations"
clause provides for other than a pricing-scheme  to pricing- scheme  comparison.
In  light  of  this  determination,  and  the  plaintiff's  stipulation  that  a
pricing-scheme  to  pricing-scheme  comparison  would not result in any "trigger
prices" or damages,  defendants  asked the court for a judgment that  plaintiffs
take nothing. The court, on June 7, 1995, entered final judgment that plaintiffs
recover no monetary  damages.  The plaintiffs  filed a motion for a new trial on
June 22, 1995.  The court,  on July 18, 1997,  denied  plaintiffs'  motion.  The
plaintiffs  appealed to the Fifth  Circuit  Court of Appeals and on September 8,
2000,  the Fifth Circuit Court  affirmed the take nothing  judgment of the trial
court.

       On June 7, 1996, the plaintiffs filed a separate suit against CIG and the
Company in state court in Amarillo,  Texas,  similarly claiming  underpayment of
royalties  under  the  "favored-nations"  clause,  but  based  upon  the  above-
described pricing-scheme to pricing-scheme  comparison on a well-by-well monthly
basis.  The plaintiffs  also claim  underpayment of royalties since June 7, 1995
under the  "favored-nations"  clause  based upon  either the  pricing-scheme  to
pricing-scheme  method or their  previously  alleged  higher price  method.  The
Company  believes it has several  defenses to this action and intends to contest
it vigorously. The Company has not yet determined the amount of damages, if any,
that would be payable if such action was determined adversely to the Company.

       Based on the final  judgment which has been affirmed by the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals,  the Company does not currently expect the ultimate resolution
of the  second  lawsuit  to have a  material  adverse  effect  on its  financial
position or results of operations.

       Kansas ad valorem tax. The Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") allows
a "severance,  production or similar" tax to be included as an add-on,  over and
above the maximum  lawful price for gas.  Based on a Federal  Energy  Regulatory
Commission  ("FERC")  ruling  that  Kansas ad valorem  tax was such a tax,  Mesa
collected the Kansas ad valorem tax in addition to the otherwise  maximum lawful
price.  The FERC's ruling was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia ("D.C. Circuit"), which held in June 1988 that the FERC
failed to provide a reasoned basis for its findings and remanded the case to the
FERC for further consideration.

       On December 1, 1993, the FERC issued an order reversing its prior ruling,
but  limiting  the effect of its  decision to Kansas ad valorem  taxes for sales
made on or after June 28, 1988.  The FERC  clarified the  effective  date of its
decision by an order dated May 18, 1994. The order  clarified that the effective
date applies to tax bills  rendered  after June 28,  1988,  not sales made on or
after that date. Numerous parties filed appeals on the FERC's action in the D.C.
Circuit.  Various gas producers challenged the FERC's orders on two grounds: (1)
that  the  Kansas  ad  valorem  tax,  properly  understood,   does  qualify  for
reimbursement  under the NGPA; and (2) the FERC's ruling  should,  in any event,
have been applied  prospectively.  Other parties challenged the FERC's orders on
the grounds that the FERC's  ruling  should have been applied  retroactively  to
December 1, 1978,  the date of the  enactment of the NGPA and  producers  should
have been required to pay refunds accordingly.

       The D.C.  Circuit issued its decision on August 2, 1996, which holds that
producers  must make refunds of all Kansas ad valorem tax collected with respect
to production since October 4, 1983, as opposed to June 28, 1988.  Petitions for
rehearing  were denied on November 6, 1996.  Various gas producers  subsequently
filed a petition  for writ of  certiori  with the United  States  Supreme  Court
seeking to limit the scope of the potential  refunds to tax bills rendered on or
after  June 28,  1988 (the  effective  date  originally  selected  by the FERC).
Williams  Natural Gas Company  filed a  cross-petition  for certiori  seeking to
impose refund  liability back to December 1, 1978. Both petitions were denied on
May 12, 1997.

                                       54

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       The Company and other  producers  filed petitions for adjustment with the
FERC on June 24, 1997.  The Company was seeking waiver or set-off from FERC with
respect  to that  portion  of the  refund  associated  with (i) non-  recoupable
royalties,  (ii)  non-recoupable  Kansas property taxes based, in part, upon the
higher prices  collected,  and (iii) interest for all periods.  On September 10,
1997,  FERC denied this request,  and on October 10, 1997, the Company and other
producers filed a request for rehearing. Pipelines were given until November 10,
1997 to file  claims on refunds  sought  from  producers  and  refunds  totaling
approximately  $30 million were made against the Company.  The Company is unable
at this time to predict the final outcome of this matter or the amount,  if any,
that will ultimately be refunded.  As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company
had on deposit $28.1 million and $31.3 million, respectively,  including accrued
interest,  in an  escrow  account  and had  corresponding  obligations  for this
litigation   recorded  in  other  current   liabilities   in  the   accompanying
Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  During  2000,  the Company  paid $3.9 million in
partial settlement of original claims presented under this litigation.

       Lease  agreements.  The Company  leases  equipment and office  facilities
under  noncancellable  operating  leases on which  rental  expense for the years
ended  December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998 was  approximately  $7.0 million,  $6.9
million and $8.9 million,  respectively.  Future minimum lease commitments under
noncancellable  operating  leases  at  December  31,  2000  are as  follows  (in
thousands):

       2001............................................    $ 5,852
       2002............................................    $ 4,691
       2003............................................    $ 4,056
       2004............................................    $ 3,605
       2005............................................    $ 2,335
       Thereafter......................................    $ 1,360

NOTE H.     Derivative Financial Instruments

       The Company,  from time to time,  uses  derivative  instruments to manage
interest  rate,  foreign  exchange  rate and commodity  price risks.  Associated
therewith,  the Company is exposed to credit losses if the counterparties to the
derivative  instruments  fail to  perform.  The  Company  uses  credit and other
financial criteria to select  counterparties  and, based thereon,  believes that
the Company's  counterparties  will be able to fully  satisfy their  obligations
under  the  contracts.  Although  the  Company  does not  obtain  collateral  or
otherwise secure derivative instruments,  associated credit risk is mitigated by
monitoring the credit standing of the counterparties on an ongoing basis.

Hedge Derivatives

       Interest  rate swap  agreements.  During 2000,  the Company  entered into
interest rate swap  agreements to hedge the fair value of a portion of its fixed
rate debt.  The interest  rate swap  agreements  are for an  aggregate  notional
amount of $150 million of debt;  commenced on April 19, 2000 and mature on April
15, 2005;  require the  counterparties to pay the Company a fixed annual rate of
8.875  percent on the  notional  amount;  and,  require  the  Company to pay the
counterparties  a  variable  annual  rate on the  notional  amount  equal to the
periodic  three month LIBOR plus a weighted  average  margin rate of 178.2 basis
points.  During  1999 and 1998,  the Company was a party to a series of interest
rate swap agreements  that matured during May and June 1999.  Under the terms of
the  interest  rate swap  agreements,  the  Company  paid a  variable  rate on a
notional amount of $150 million of debt and received a fixed annual rate of 6.62
percent on the notional  amount.  The  accompanying  Consolidated  Statements of
Operations  and  Comprehensive  Income  (Loss) for the years ended  December 31,
2000,  1999 and 1998 include  reductions in interest  expense of $294  thousand,
$849 thousand and $356  thousand,  respectively,  associated  with interest rate
swap agreements accounted for as hedges.

                                       55

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       Commodity  hedges.  The Company utilizes swap and collar contracts to (i)
reduce the effect of price  volatility on the commodities  the Company  produces
and sells,  (ii) support the Company's annual capital  budgeting and expenditure
plans and (iii) reduce price risk associated with certain capital projects.

       Oil. All material sales contracts  governing the Company's oil production
have  been tied  directly  or  indirectly  to the New York  Mercantile  Exchange
("NYMEX") prices.  The following table sets forth the Company's  outstanding oil
hedge contracts and the weighted  average NYMEX prices for those contracts as of
December 31, 2000:
<TABLE>

                                                                                                      Yearly
                                         First          Second          Third          Fourth       Outstanding
                                        Quarter         Quarter        Quarter         Quarter        Average
                                     -------------   -------------   ------------   -------------  -------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Daily oil production:
   2001 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)..................         11,444           7,681          5,033           2,000          6,510
     Price per Bbl.................  $       28.79   $       29.38   $      29.84   $       30.14  $       29.27

   2001 - Collar Contracts
     Volume (Bbl)..................          7,000           7,000          2,000           2,000          4,479
     Price per Bbl.................  $19.29-$23.33   $19.29-$23.33   $25.00-$31.43  $25.00-$31.43  $20.57-$25.15
</TABLE>

       The Company  reports  average oil prices per Bbl including the effects of
oil quality,  gathering and  transportation  costs and the net effect of the oil
hedges.  The following table sets forth the Company's oil prices,  both realized
(excluding  hedge  results) and reported,  and the net effects of settlements of
oil price hedges to revenue:
<TABLE>

                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------
                                                             2000      1999      1998
                                                           -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                        <C>       <C>       <C>

     Average price reported per Bbl.....................   $ 24.01   $ 15.36   $ 13.08
     Average price realized per Bbl.....................   $ 28.81   $ 16.23   $ 11.93
     Addition (reduction) to revenue (in millions)......   $ (60.1)  $ (13.4)  $  24.8
</TABLE>

        Natural gas liquids.  During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, the Company did not enter into any NGL hedge contracts.

       Gas.  The  Company  employs  a policy of  hedging  a  portion  of its gas
production based on the index price upon which the gas is actually sold in order
to mitigate the basis risk between  NYMEX  prices and actual index  prices.  The
following table sets forth the Company's outstanding gas hedge contracts and the
weighted average index prices for those contracts as of December 31, 2000:
<TABLE>
                                                                                              Yearly
                                        First        Second         Third        Fourth     Outstanding
                                       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter      Average
                                     -----------   -----------   -----------   ----------   -----------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>
Daily gas production:
   2001 - Swap Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)..................      159,223        49,223        49,223        49,223       76,346
     Index price per MMBtu.........  $      6.80   $      2.25   $      2.25   $      2.25  $      4.59

   2001 - Collar Contracts
     Volume (Mcf)..................       54,482        54,482        54,482        54,482       54,482
     Index price per MMBtu.........  $2.11-$2.73   $2.11-$2.73   $2.11-$2.73   $2.11-$2.73  $2.11-$2.73
</TABLE>

                                       56

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       The Company  reports  average gas prices per Mcf including the effects of
Btu content,  gathering and  transportation  costs, gas processing and shrinkage
and the net  effect  of the gas  hedges.  The  following  table  sets  forth the
Company's gas prices, both realized (excluding hedge results) and reported,  and
the net effects of settlements of gas price hedges to revenue:
<TABLE>

                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                                          ------------------------
                                                           2000     1999     1998
                                                          ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                       <C>      <C>      <C>

     Average price reported per Mcf...................    $ 2.81   $ 1.90   $ 1.82
     Average price realized per Mcf...................    $ 3.03   $ 1.84   $ 1.80
     Addition/(reduction) to revenue (in millions)....    $(29.0)  $  9.4   $  3.6
</TABLE>

      Deferred  commodity hedge losses.  The Company records the losses realized
from  terminating  hedges prior to their scheduled  maturity as deferred losses.
The deferred hedge losses are recorded in the accompanying  Consolidated Balance
Sheets as either other  current  assets or other assets based on their  original
maturity dates,  and are amortized to oil and gas revenues during their original
maturity  periods.  The Company has recorded the future  settlement  obligations
associated with these deferred losses in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance
Sheets as current derivative obligations and other noncurrent  liabilities.  The
following table  summarizes the deferred  commodity hedge losses recorded by the
Company as of December 31, 2000 and 1999:
<TABLE>
                                                     As of December 31,
                                                    -------------------
                                                      2000        1999
                                                    --------    -------
                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>
      Current deferred hedge losses:
        Oil......................................   $  8,745    $ 1,672
        Gas......................................      2,863      1,446
                                                     -------     ------
                                                    $ 11,608    $ 3,118
                                                     =======     ======
      Noncurrent deferred hedge losses:
        Oil......................................   $    -      $   288
        Gas......................................     46,192        171
                                                     -------     ------
                                                    $ 46,192    $   459
                                                     =======     ======
</TABLE>

      In  accordance  with SFAS 133,  the  Company's  deferred  hedge  losses at
December 31, 2000 will be  reclassified  from current assets and other assets to
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  in  stockholders'  equity,  effective
January 1, 2001. This  reclassification  of the Company's  deferred hedge losses
comprises a portion of the SFAS 133 transition adjustment previously referred to
in "Derivatives and hedging", above.

Non-hedge Derivatives

       As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company has recognized  liabilities
in the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets of $25.5  million  and $30.6
million,  respectively,  associated with non-hedge derivative  instruments.  See
Note C for information regarding the Company's  determination of the fair values
of derivative  instruments.  During the years ended December 31, 2000,  1999 and
1998, the Company  recognized  mark-to-market  charges of $58.5  million,  $27.0
million and $21.2 million, respectively.

       Foreign  currency  agreements.  The  Company  was a party to a series  of
forward foreign  exchange rate swap agreements that exchanged  Canadian  dollars
for United  States  dollars.  These  agreements  matured  during 2000.  As these
contracts  did not  qualify  as  hedges,  the  Company  recorded  mark-to-market
adjustments  to increase the  associated  contract  liabilities  by $1.9 million
during 2000 and to decrease the associated contract  liabilities by $5.9 million
during 1999.

       Btu swap  agreements.  During 1996, Mesa entered into Btu swap agreements
covering  13,036 MMBtu per day from  January 1, 1997 through  December 31, 2004.
Under the terms of these agreements,  the Company received a premium of $.52 per

                                       57

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


MMBtu over market gas prices from  January 1, 1997  through  December  31, 1998.
Additionally,  the  Company  receives  10 percent of the NYMEX oil price for the
volumes  covered  for a six-year  period  ending  December  31,  2004.  As these
derivative   contracts   do  not  qualify  as  hedges,   the  Company   recorded
mark-to-market  adjustments  to  increase  the  carrying  value  of the Btu swap
liability by $14.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2000 and to reduce
the carrying  value of the Btu swap  liability by $222 thousand  during the year
ended December 31, 1999. During 2000, the Company terminated its position in the
Btu swap  agreements  for the 2001 volumes and  locked-in a loss of $6.7 million
related to the terminated positions. The remaining contracts will continue to be
marked-  to-market at the end of each reporting  period during their  respective
lives.  The related  effects on the  Company's  results of  operations in future
periods could be significant.

       Other non-hedge commodity derivatives. During 1999, the Company sold call
options that provided the  counterparties  an option to exercise calls either on
10,000  barrels  per day of oil, at a strike  price of $20.00 per barrel,  or on
100,000  MMBtu per day of gas, at a weighted  average  strike price of $2.75 per
MMBtu.  These  contracts,  which matured  during 2000, did not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment. Other expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements
of Operations  and  Comprehensive  Income (Loss) include $42.0 million and $21.2
million of  mark-to-market  charges  for the years ended  December  31, 2000 and
1999, respectively, associated with these call options.

NOTE I.     Sales to Major Customers

       The  Company's  share  of oil and  gas  production  is  sold  to  various
purchasers.  The  Company is of the opinion  that the loss of any one  purchaser
would not have an adverse  effect on the  ability of the Company to sell its oil
and gas production.

       The following customers  individually accounted for 10 percent or more of
the consolidated oil, NGL and gas revenues of the Company during the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:
<TABLE>

                                        Percentage of Consolidated
                                        Oil, NGL and Gas Revenues
                                        --------------------------
       Customer                          2000      1999      1998
     ------------                       ------    ------    ------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>       <C>

     Williams Energy Services........      13        11        10
     Genesis Crude Oil, L.P..........      -          2        10
</TABLE>

       At December 31, 2000, the amount receivable from Williams Energy Services
was $18.0  million,  which is  included in the caption  "Accounts  receivable  -
trade" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.

NOTE J.     Interest and Other Income

       During 1999, the Company  received an excise tax refund of $30.2 million.
Due to uncertainties  surrounding the collectability of this refund, the Company
had  not  previously  recognized  it  as  an  asset.  Accordingly,  the  Company
recognized the tax refund as other income during 1999.

       In December  1998,  the Company  announced  the sale of an exclusive  and
irrevocable  option to purchase  certain oil and gas  properties of the Company.
The third party was unable to complete the purchase on or before March 31, 1999.
In payment for the option and related liquidated  damages,  the third party paid
the Company $41.8 million, which was recorded as other income in 1999.

                                       58

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


NOTE K.     Asset Divestitures

       During the years ended  December  31,  2000,  1999 and 1998,  the Company
completed  the  divestiture  of certain  assets for net  divestment  proceeds of
$102.7  million,  $420.5 million (of which $390.5 million was cash proceeds) and
$21.9 million,  respectively.  Associated therewith, the Company recorded a gain
on  disposition  of assets of $34.2 million  during the year ended  December 31,
2000,  and losses on  disposition  of assets of $24.2  million and $445 thousand
during the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

       Prize  divestitures.  On June 29, 1999,  the Company  completed a sale of
certain  United  States oil and gas producing  properties,  gas plants and other
assets  to  Prize.  The oil and  gas  producing  assets  sold to  Prize  include
properties  located in the Gulf Coast,  Mid Continent and Permian Basin areas of
the Company's United States region.

       In  accordance  with the terms of the  purchase and sale  agreement  (the
"Prize Divestiture"), the Company received net sales proceeds of $245.0 million,
comprised  of $215.0  million of cash and  2,307.693  shares of Prize  Preferred
having a 1999  liquidation  preference and fair value of $30.0  million.  During
1999, the Company recognized a loss of $46.4 million from the Prize Divestiture.
As further  described in Note C above,  the Prize  Preferred  was  exchanged for
3,984,197  shares of Prize Common during 2000. The Company sold 3,370,982 shares
of Prize Common and received cash in lieu of 33,964 shares of preferred  in-kind
dividends during the year ended December 31, 2000 for combined proceeds of $59.7
million, recording an associated gain on disposition of assets of $34.3 million.

       Other  United  States  divestitures.  During the year ended  December 31,
2000,  the Company  sold an office  building in Midland,  Texas,  certain  other
assets and non-strategic oil and gas properties  primarily located in the United
States Gulf Coast and Mid Continent areas.  Associated with these  divestitures,
the Company realized net divestment proceeds of $43.0 million and recorded a net
loss  on  disposition  of  assets  of $.4  million.  In  addition  to the  Prize
Divestiture,  the Company  completed 1999  divestitures of non-strategic  United
States oil and gas properties  located in the South Texas Gulf Coast, West Texas
Permian  Basin and North  Dakota  areas,  an East Texas gas facility and certain
other assets for net cash proceeds of $116.2 million  during 1999,  resulting in
net gains on divestitures of assets of $31.0 million.

       Canadian   divestitures.   During  1999,   the  Company   completed   the
divestitures  of certain  non-strategic  Canadian  oil and gas  properties,  gas
plants and other related  assets.  In accordance  with the terms of the Canadian
divestitures,  the  Company  received  net cash  proceeds  of $59.3  million and
recognized a net loss of $8.8 million.

NOTE L.     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

       In December 1998, the Company estimated the expected future cash flows of
its  proved  oil and gas  properties  as of  December  31,  1998  based upon the
Company's  outlook for future commodity  prices and the Company's  assessment of
performance  issues  relative  to  certain  of its oil and gas  properties.  The
estimated  future cash flows were compared with the respective  carrying amounts
of the  properties  to  determine  if the  carrying  amounts  were  likely to be
recoverable.  For those  proved oil and gas  properties  for which the  carrying
amount exceeded the estimated future cash flows, an impairment was determined to
exist; therefore,  the Company adjusted the carrying amounts of those proved oil
and gas  properties  to their fair values.  The fair values were  determined  by
discounting  the  properties'  expected  future  cash flows at a  discount  rate
commensurate with the risks involved in the industry.  As a result,  the Company
recognized  a non-cash  impairment  provision of $312.2  million  related to its
proved oil and gas properties during 1998.

       Based  on  the  Company's  1999  and  1998  assessment  of  its  unproved
properties,  the  Company  recognized  non- cash  unproved  property  impairment
provisions  of  $17.9  million  and  $147.3   million   during  1999  and  1998,
respectively.

       See Note O for  disclosure  of these  impairment  charges  by  geographic
operating segment.

                                       59

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


NOTE M.     Reorganization

       During 1998, the Company  announced  plans to sell certain  non-strategic
oil and gas fields, its intentions to reorganize its operations by combining its
six domestic operating regions, and other cost reduction initiatives intended to
allow  the   Company  to  realize   greater   operational   and   administrative
efficiencies.  Specific cost  reduction  initiatives  included the relocation of
most of the Company's  administrative  services  from Midland,  Texas to Irving,
Texas;  the  closings  of the  Company's  regional  offices  in  Oklahoma  City,
Oklahoma,  Corpus  Christi,  Texas and Houston,  Texas;  the  termination of 350
employees;  and, further centralization of the Company's organization structure.
The  consolidation of  administrative  services to Irving and the closing of the
Corpus Christi,  Texas office were completed in 1998. The Company  completed the
closings of the Houston,  Texas and Oklahoma City,  Oklahoma offices during 1999
and further  centralized  certain  operational  functions in Irving,  Texas. The
unpaid office  closing  amounts  primarily  relate to lease  commitments  on the
office buildings in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Corpus Christi, Texas, and Houston,
Texas. As a result of the  reorganization  initiatives,  the Company  recognized
reorganization  charges of $8.5 million and $33.2 million  during 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

       The  following  table  provides a  description  of the  components of the
reorganization  charges and unpaid  portions  of the charges as of December  31,
2000, 1999 and 1998:
<TABLE>
                                                                      Unpaid
                                             Total                 Portion as of
                                            Charges    Payments    December 31,
                                           --------    --------    -------------
                                                    (in thousands)
<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
       2000:
         Office closings................   $    -      $  1,155      $    482
         Relocation.....................        -           230           -
                                            -------     -------       -------
                                           $    -      $  1,385      $    482
                                            =======     =======       =======
       1999:
         Employee terminations..........   $  3,125    $  7,805      $    -
         Office closings................        340       2,233         1,637
         Relocation.....................      4,998       4,768           230
         Other..........................         71          71           -
                                            -------     -------       -------
                                           $  8,534    $ 14,877      $  1,867
                                            =======     =======       =======
       1998:
         Employee terminations..........   $ 22,525    $ 17,845      $  4,680
         Office closings................      3,873         343         3,530
         Relocation.....................      6,677       6,677           -
         Other..........................        124         124           -
                                            -------     -------       -------
                                           $ 33,199    $ 24,989      $  8,210
                                            =======     =======       =======
</TABLE>

NOTE N.     Income Taxes

       The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance  with the provisions
of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes".  The Company and its eligible  subsidiaries  file a consolidated  United
States federal income tax return.  Certain  subsidiaries  are not eligible to be
included  in the  consolidated  United  States  federal  income  tax  return and
separate  provisions for income taxes have been determined for these entities or
groups of entities. The tax returns and the amount of taxable income or loss are
subject to  examination  by United  States  federal,  state and  foreign  taxing
authorities.  Current and estimated tax payments of $4.6 million,  $800 thousand
and $300 thousand were made in 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  In addition,
the Company received income tax refunds of $1.4 million and $3.3 million in 1999
and 1998,  respectively.  During 2000,  1999 and 1998, the Company's  income tax
provision (benefit) and amounts separately allocated were as follows:

                                       60

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>
                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                         ------------------------------
                                                            2000      1999       1998
                                                         --------   --------   --------
                                                                 (in thousands)
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>

     Income (loss) before extraordinary item..........   $ (6,000)  $   (600)  $ 15,600
     Stockholders' equity provision (benefit).........        -          -        4,300
     Change in cumulative translation adjustment......       (200)     1,600     (6,000)
                                                          -------    -------    -------
                                                         $ (6,200)  $  1,000   $ 13,900
                                                          =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

       Income tax  provision  (benefit)  attributable  to income  (loss)  before
extraordinary item consists of the following:
<TABLE>
                                                  Year Ended December 31,
                                              -------------------------------
                                                2000       1999       1998
                                              --------   --------   ---------
                                                      (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>        <C>       <C>
     Current:
       U.S. federal........................   $    -     $    -     $  (3,300)
       U.S. state and local................        -          400         300
       Foreign.............................      4,600     (1,000)        -
                                               -------    -------    --------
                                                 4,600       (600)     (3,000)
                                               -------    -------    --------
     Deferred:
       U.S. federal........................        -       14,700     123,500
       U.S. state and local................        -          -          (300)
       Foreign.............................    (10,600)   (14,700)   (104,600)
                                               -------    -------    --------
                                               (10,600)       -        18,600
                                               -------    -------    --------
     Total.................................   $ (6,000)  $   (600)  $  15,600
                                               =======    =======    ========
</TABLE>

       Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary  item consists of the
following:
<TABLE>
                                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                                     2000        1999       1998
                                                                  ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                            (in thousands)
<S>                                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
     Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item:
       U.S. federal.............................................  $ 138,941   $ (23,594)  $(393,602)
       Foreign..................................................     19,558         534    (337,224)
                                                                   --------    --------    --------
                                                                  $ 158,499   $ (23,060)  $(730,826)
                                                                   ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>

       Reconciliations  of the  United  States  federal  statutory  rate  to the
Company's  effective  rate for income  (loss) before  extraordinary  item are as
follows:
<TABLE>
                                                         2000     1999     1998
                                                        ------   ------   ------

<S>                                                     <C>      <C>      <C>
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate..................    35.0    (35.0)   (35.0)
     Valuation allowance..............................   (30.9)   102.0     37.1
     Rate differential on foreign operations..........    (2.9)   (68.1)     (.5)
     Other............................................    (5.0)    (1.3)      .5
                                                        ------   ------   ------
     Consolidated effective tax rate..................    (3.8)    (2.4)     2.1
                                                        ======   ======   ======
</TABLE>

                                       61

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


       The tax effects of temporary  differences  that give rise to  significant
portions  of the  deferred  tax  assets and  deferred  tax  liabilities  were as
follows:
<TABLE>
                                                                         December 31,
                                                                   -----------------------
                                                                      2000         1999
                                                                   ---------     ---------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                                <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Net operating loss carryforwards............................     $ 350,916     $ 334,173
  Alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards................         1,565         1,565
  Other.......................................................       105,792        78,994
                                                                    --------      --------
    Total deferred tax assets.................................       458,273       414,732
  Valuation allowance.........................................      (283,400)     (319,900)
                                                                    --------      --------
    Net deferred tax assets...................................       174,873        94,832
                                                                    --------      --------

Deferred tax liabilities:
  Oil and gas properties, principally due to differences
    in basis and depletion and the deduction of intangible
    drilling costs for tax purposes...........................        82,551        38,025
  Other.......................................................        31,622        11,107
                                                                    --------      --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities............................       114,173        49,132
                                                                    --------      --------
    Net deferred tax asset....................................     $  60,700     $  45,700
                                                                    ========      ========
</TABLE>

       Realization  of deferred tax assets  associated  with net operating  loss
carryforwards   ("NOLs")  and  other  credit  carryforwards  is  dependent  upon
generating  sufficient  taxable  income prior to their  expiration.  The Company
believes  that  there is a risk that  certain  of these  NOLs and  other  credit
carryforwards  may expire unused and,  accordingly,  has established a valuation
allowance of $283.4 million  against them.  Although  realization is not assured
for the  remaining  deferred tax asset,  the Company  believes it is more likely
than  not  that  they  will be  realized  through  future  taxable  earnings  or
alternative tax planning strategies.  However, the net deferred tax assets could
be reduced further if the Company's estimate of taxable income in future periods
is  significantly  reduced or alternative tax planning  strategies are no longer
viable.

       At December 31, 2000, the Company had NOLs for United States,  Argentine,
Canadian, and South African income tax purposes of $941.6 million, $7.6 million,
$23.0  million and $24.0  million,  respectively,  which are available to offset
future regular  taxable  income in each  respective  tax  jurisdiction,  if any.
Additionally,  at December 31, 2000, the Company has alternative minimum tax net
operating  loss  carryforwards  ("AMT  NOLs")  in the  United  States  of $829.0
million,  which are  available  to reduce  future  alternative  minimum  taxable
income, if any. These carryforwards expire as follows:


                                       62

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

                                           U.S.
                                  ---------------------   Argentina    Canada    South Africa
    Expiration Date                  NOL       AMT NOL       NOL         NOL         NOL
    ---------------               ---------   ---------   ---------   --------   ------------
                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                               <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>

    December 31, 2001..........   $     689   $     593   $    -      $    -       $     -
    December 31, 2002..........       6,066       6,034        -           -             -
    December 31, 2003..........         838         -        7,632         -             -
    December 31, 2005..........      11,049      10,762        -        15,242           -
    December 31, 2006..........      30,834      12,254        -         7,779           -
    December 31, 2007..........     104,107     101,151        -           -             -
    December 31, 2008..........     112,508     106,558        -           -             -
    December 31, 2009..........     129,227     102,727        -           -             -
    December 31, 2010..........     124,859     110,961        -           -             -
    December 31, 2011..........       6,521       4,045        -           -             -
    December 31, 2012..........      68,542      58,930        -           -             -
    December 31, 2018..........     127,925      98,559        -           -             -
    December 31, 2019..........     145,999     144,836        -           -             -
    December 31, 2020..........      72,485      71,546        -           -               -
    Indefinite.................         -           -          -           -          23,989
                                   --------    --------    -------     -------      --------
       Total...................   $ 941,649   $ 828,956   $  7,632    $ 23,021     $  23,989
                                   ========    ========    =======     =======      ========
</TABLE>

       The NOLs and AMT NOLs from certain of the United States  subsidiaries are
subject  to  various  utilization  limitations.  In total,  approximately  $34.3
million  of the NOLs and $14.8  million  of the AMT NOLs are  limited  in use to
specific United States  subsidiaries.  Section 382 of the Internal  Revenue Code
provides  another  limitation to $342.5  million of the Company's  United States
NOLs and $255.3 million of its AMT NOLs. The Company believes the utilization of
$142.5  million  of the NOLs and $55.3  million  of the AMT NOLs  subject to the
Section 382 limitation is limited in each taxable year to  approximately  $104.2
million.  The remaining  $200.0  million of the NOLs and AMT NOLs subject to the
Section 382 limitation are limited in each taxable year to  approximately  $20.0
million.

NOTE O.        Geographic Operating Segment Information

       The Company has operations in only one industry  segment,  that being the
oil and gas  exploration  and  production  industry;  however,  the  Company  is
organizationally structured along geographic operating segments, or regions. The
Company has reportable  operations in the United  States,  Argentina and Canada.
Other foreign is primarily comprised of operations in South Africa and Gabon.

       The  following  table  provides  the  geographic  operating  segment data
required by Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information",  as well as results of
operations  of oil  and  gas  producing  activities  required  by  Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
Activities".  Geographic operating segment income tax benefits (provisions) have
been   determined   based  on  statutory  rates  existing  in  the  various  tax
jurisdictions  where  the  Company  has oil and gas  producing  activities.  The
"Headquarters and Other" table column includes revenues,  expenses, additions to
properties,  plants and  equipment,  and assets that do not represent  revenues,
expenses,  additions to properties,  plants and equipment,  or assets of oil and
gas producing  activities,  and that are not routinely  included in the earnings
measures  or  attributes  internally  reported  to  management  on a  geographic
operating segment basis.

                                       63

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

                                                United                              Other     Headquarters   Consolidated
                                                States     Argentina    Canada     Foreign      and Other        Total
                                              ----------   ---------   ---------   --------   ------------   ------------
                                                                         (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>            <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  649,273   $ 140,990   $  62,475   $    -     $      -       $  852,738
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -          -         25,775         25,775
   Gain on disposition of assets............       4,690         -           335        -         29,159         34,184
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 653,963     140,990      62,810        -         54,934        912,697
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     155,075      24,417       9,773        -            -          189,265
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     121,932      52,141      25,132        -         15,733        214,938
   Exploration and abandonments.............      40,867      25,388       5,131     16,164          -           87,550
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -          -         33,262         33,262
   Interest.................................         -           -           -          -        161,952        161,952
   Other....................................         -           -           -          -         67,231         67,231
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 317,874     101,946      40,036     16,164      278,178        754,198
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Income before income taxes and
     extraordinary item.....................     336,089      39,044      22,774    (16,164)    (223,244)       158,499
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........    (117,631)    (13,665)    (10,162)     5,657      141,801          6,000
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Income before extraordinary item.........  $  218,458   $  25,379   $  12,612   $(10,507)  $  (81,443)    $  164,499
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
   Additions to properties, plant and
      equipment.............................  $  165,311   $  59,680   $  44,107   $ 11,468   $   10,042     $  290,608
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $1,899,633   $ 702,868   $ 227,250   $ 16,552   $  108,132     $2,954,435
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  502,585   $  83,697   $  58,364   $    -     $      -       $  644,646
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -          -         89,657         89,657
   Loss on disposition of assets............     (14,736)        -        (8,836)       -           (596)       (24,168)
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 487,849      83,697      49,528        -         89,061        710,135
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     124,654      18,268      16,608        -            -          159,530
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     153,775      38,874      25,601        -         17,797        236,047
   Impairment of oil and gas properties.....      17,894         -           -          -            -           17,894
   Exploration and abandonments.............      41,225      14,009       3,509      7,231          -           65,974
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -          -         40,241         40,241
   Reorganization...........................         -           -           -          -          8,534          8,534
   Interest.................................         -           -           -          -        170,344        170,344
   Other....................................         -           -           -          -         34,631         34,631
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 337,548      71,151      45,718      7,231      271,547        733,195
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Loss before income taxes.................     150,301      12,546       3,810     (7,231)    (182,486)       (23,060)
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........     (52,605)     (4,140)     (1,699)     2,531       56,513            600
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Net loss.................................  $   97,696   $   8,406   $   2,111   $ (4,700)  $ (125,973)    $  (22,460)
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
   Additions to properties, plant and
      equipment.............................  $   81,739   $  75,137   $  18,893   $  3,899   $    7,756     $  187,424
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========

   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $1,865,441   $ 734,382   $ 218,526   $  8,289   $  102,835     $2,929,473
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
Year Ended December 31, 1998:
   Oil and gas revenues.....................  $  579,156   $  65,256   $  67,080   $    -     $      -       $  711,492
   Interest and other.......................         -           -           -          -         10,452         10,452
   Loss on disposition of assets............         (52)        -           -          -           (393)          (445)
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 579,104      65,256      67,080        -         10,059        721,499
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Production costs.........................     177,371      21,158      25,022        -            -          223,551
   Depletion, depreciation and amortization.     239,561      42,115      40,617        -         15,015        337,308
   Impairment of oil and gas properties.....     237,528     136,751      85,240        -            -          459,519
   Exploration and abandonments.............      69,263      18,245      20,613     13,737          -          121,858
   General and administrative...............         -           -           -          -         73,000         73,000
   Reorganization...........................         -           -           -          -         33,199         33,199
   Interest.................................         -           -           -          -        164,285        164,285
   Other....................................         -           -           -          -         39,605         39,605
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
                                                 723,723     218,269     171,492     13,737      325,104      1,452,325
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Loss before income taxes.................    (144,619)   (153,013)   (104,412)   (13,737)    (315,045)      (730,826)
   Income tax benefit (provision)...........      53,075      50,494      45,628      4,808     (169,605)       (15,600)
                                               ---------    --------    --------    -------    ---------      ---------
   Net loss.................................  $  (91,544)  $(102,519)  $ (58,784)  $ (8,929)  $ (484,650)    $ (746,426)
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
   Additions to properties, plant and
      equipment.............................  $  346,368   $  69,082   $  73,096   $ 18,791   $   31,546     $  538,883
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
   Segment assets (as of December 31).......  $2,259,746   $ 692,271   $ 308,025   $103,702   $  117,570     $3,481,314
                                               =========    ========    ========    =======    =========      =========
</TABLE>
                                       64

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


NOTE P.     Income (Loss) Per Share

       Basic  net  income  (loss)  per  share is  computed  by  dividing  income
available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding  for the period.  The  computation  of diluted net income (loss) per
share  reflects the  potential  dilution that could occur if securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or
resulted in the  issuance of common  stock that would then share in the earnings
of the  entity.  Basic  and  diluted  weighted  average  shares  outstanding  of
99,378,314 and  99,762,664,  respectively,  were used in the  computation of the
Company's  net  income  per  share  for  the  year  ended   December  31,  2000.
In-the-money  options  representing  384,350 weighted average  equivalent shares
were  included  in the  diluted  computation  for  2000,  but did not  cause the
reported basic and diluted income per share amounts to differ.

       Common stock options to purchase  4,911,749 shares,  5,274,964 shares and
2,817,822  shares of common  stock  were  outstanding  but not  included  in the
computations  of diluted  net income  (loss) per share for 2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively,  because the exercise  prices of the options were greater than the
average  market  price of the common  shares and would be  anti-dilutive  to the
computations.  In-the-money  options  representing  158,556 and 434,118 weighted
average  equivalent shares of common stock were not included in the computations
of diluted net income  (loss) per share for 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  since
they have an anti-dilutive effect to the net losses recognized for those years.

NOTE Q.     Pioneer USA

       Pioneer USA is a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company that has fully
and unconditionally  guaranteed certain debt securities of the Company (see Note
D  above).  The  Company  has not  prepared  financial  statements  and  related
disclosures  for Pioneer USA under  separate  cover  because  management  of the
Company has determined  that such  information is not material to investors.  In
accordance with practices  accepted by the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the  "SEC"),  the  Company  has  prepared  Consolidating  Condensed
Financial  Statements  in order to  quantify  the  assets  of  Pioneer  USA as a
subsidiary guarantor. The following Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999,  and  Consolidating  Statements  of  Operations  and
Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Consolidating Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2000,  1999  and  1998  present  financial
information for Pioneer Natural Resources Company as the Parent on a stand-alone
basis  (carrying  any  investments  in  subsidiaries  under the equity  method),
financial  information  for Pioneer USA on a  stand-alone  basis  (carrying  any
investment in  non-guarantor  subsidiaries  under the equity method),  financial
information for the non- guarantor subsidiaries of the Company on a consolidated
basis,  the  consolidation  and elimination  entries  necessary to arrive at the
information  for  the  Company  on  a  consolidated  basis,  and  the  financial
information  for  the  Company  on a  consolidated  basis.  Pioneer  USA  is not
restricted from making distributions to the Company.


                                      65

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 2000
<TABLE>

                                               Pioneer
                                               Natural
                                              Resources                     Non-
                                               Company       Pioneer     Guarantor                       The
                                               (Parent)        USA      Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                              ----------   ----------   ------------   ------------   ----------
                                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................  $       15  $    18,387   $    7,757     $              $   26,159
  Other current assets......................   2,006,496   (1,245,546)    (595,718)                      165,232
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
      Total current assets..................   2,006,511   (1,227,159)    (587,961)                      191,391
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.......................         -      2,291,872      896,017                     3,187,889
    Unproved properties.....................         -         28,103      201,102                       229,205
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization............................         -       (692,250)    (209,889)                     (902,139)
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                                     -      1,627,725      887,230                     2,514,955
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
Deferred income taxes.......................      84,400          -            -                          84,400
Other property and equipment, net...........         -         20,823        4,801                        25,624
Other assets, net...........................      18,877       89,632       29,556                       138,065
Investment in subsidiaries..................     347,370      100,192          -         (447,562)           -
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                              $2,457,158  $   611,213   $  333,626                    $2,954,435
                                               =========   ==========    =========                     =========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Total current liabilities...................  $   37,889  $   140,415   $   38,210     $              $  216,514
Long-term debt, less current maturities.....   1,578,776          -            -                       1,578,776
Other noncurrent liabilities................         -        190,476       35,264                       225,740
Deferred income taxes.......................         -            -         28,500                        28,500
Stockholders' equity........................     840,493      280,322      231,652       (447,562)       904,905
Commitments and contingencies...............
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                              $2,457,158  $   611,213   $  333,626                    $2,954,435
                                               =========   ==========    =========                     =========
</TABLE>

                      CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                             As of December 31, 1999
<TABLE>

                                               Pioneer
                                               Natural
                                              Resources                     Non-
                                               Company       Pioneer     Guarantor                       The
                                               (Parent)        USA      Subsidiaries   Eliminations    Company
                                              ----------   ----------   ------------   ------------   ----------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................  $        5  $    22,699   $   12,084     $              $   34,788
  Other current assets......................   2,160,134   (1,455,442)    (556,344)                      148,348
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
      Total current assets..................   2,160,139   (1,432,743)    (544,260)                      183,136
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, using the
   successful efforts method of accounting:
    Proved properties.......................         -      2,200,173      797,162                     2,997,335
    Unproved properties.....................         -         24,267      233,316                       257,583
  Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization............................         -       (614,402)    (137,554)                     (751,956)
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                                     -      1,610,038      892,924                     2,502,962
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
Deferred income taxes.......................      83,400          -            -                          83,400
Other property and equipment, net...........         -         28,144       14,862                        43,006
Other assets, net...........................      13,293       58,117       45,559                       116,969
Investment in subsidiaries..................     190,293      161,061          -         (351,354)           -
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                              $2,447,125  $   424,617   $  409,085                    $2,929,473
                                               =========   ==========    =========                     =========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of long-term debt......  $      -    $       828   $      -       $              $      828
  Other current liabilities.................      36,115      120,857       39,013                       195,985
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
      Total current liabilities.............      36,115      121,685       39,013                       196,813
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
Long-term debt, less current maturities.....   1,745,108          -            -                       1,745,108
Other noncurrent liabilities................         -        137,848       31,590                       169,438
Deferred income taxes.......................         -            -         43,500                        43,500
Stockholders' equity........................     665,902      165,084      294,982       (351,354)       774,614
Commitments and contingencies...............
                                               ---------   ----------    ---------                     ---------
                                              $2,447,125  $   424,617   $  409,085                    $2,929,473
                                               =========   ==========    =========                     =========
</TABLE>

                                       66

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                   Pioneer
                                   Natural
                                  Resources                     Non-       Consolidated
                                   Company       Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                   (Parent)       USA       Subsidiaries     Provision    Eliminations    Company
                                  ----------   ----------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                               <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...................  $     -      $ 616,030    $ 236,708      $      -       $              $  852,738
  Interest and other............         29       13,808       11,938             -                          25,775
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net................     (6,172)      36,946        3,410             -                          34,184
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
                                     (6,143)     666,784      252,056             -                         912,697
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production........        -        150,281       38,984             -                         189,265
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization................        -        129,996       84,942             -                         214,938
  Exploration and abandonments..        -         43,938       43,612             -                          87,550
  General and administrative....        283       22,519       10,460             -                          33,262
  Interest......................    (53,180)     151,026       64,106             -                         161,952
  Equity income (loss) from
    subsidiary..................   (117,704)      (6,313)         -               -        (124,017)            -
  Other.........................        -         63,459        3,772             -                          67,231
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
                                   (170,601)     554,906      245,876             -                         754,198
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Income before income taxes......    164,458      111,878        6,180             -                         158,499
Income tax benefit (provision)..        -             (4)       5,963              41                         6,000
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Income before extraordinary item    164,458      111,874       12,143              41                       164,499
Extraordinary item - loss on early
  extinguishment of debt........    (12,318)         -            -               -                         (12,318)
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Net income......................    152,140      111,874       12,143              41                       152,181
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Unrealized gains on available
   for sale securities:
    Unrealized holdings gains...        -         33,828          -               -                          33,828
    Less gains included in net
      income....................        -        (25,674)         -               -                         (25,674)
  Translation adjustment........        -            -         (6,910)            -                          (6,910)
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Comprehensive income............  $ 152,140    $ 120,028    $   5,233      $       41                    $  153,425
                                   ========     ========     ========       =========                     =========
</TABLE>

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                   Pioneer
                                   Natural
                                  Resources                    Non-       Consolidated
                                   Company       Pioneer    Guarantor      Income Tax                       The
                                   (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Provision     Eliminations     Company
                                  ----------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   -----------
<S>                               <C>          <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...................  $     -      $ 470,059    $ 174,587      $      -       $              $  644,646
  Interest and other............        406       52,232       37,019             -                          89,657
  Gain (loss) on disposition of
     assets, net................        -         19,379      (43,547)            -                         (24,168)
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
                                        406      541,670      168,059             -                         710,135
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production........        -        120,074       39,456             -                         159,530
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization................        -        157,294       78,753             -                         236,047
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties..................        -         17,894          -               -                          17,894
  Exploration and abandonments..        -         43,133       22,841             -                          65,974
  General and administrative....      1,051       27,260       11,930             -                          40,241
  Reorganization................        -          8,534          -               -                           8,534
  Interest......................    (33,404)     145,184       58,564             -                         170,344
  Equity income (loss) from
    subsidiary..................     39,672       (5,179)         -               -         (34,493)            -
  Other.........................        799       38,166       (4,334)            -                          34,631
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
                                      8,118      552,360      207,210             -                         733,195
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Loss before income taxes........     (7,712)     (10,690)     (39,151)            -                         (23,060)
Income tax benefit (provision)..        -           (444)      15,792         (14,748)                          600
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Net loss........................     (7,712)     (11,134)     (23,359)        (14,748)                      (22,460)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment........        -            -          8,358             -                           8,358
                                   --------     --------     --------       ---------                     ---------
Comprehensive loss..............  $  (7,712)   $ (11,134)   $ (15,001)     $  (14,748)                   $  (14,102)
                                   ========     ========     ========       =========                     =========
</TABLE>

                                       67

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                    Pioneer
                                    Natural
                                   Resources                   Non-       Consolidated
                                    Company     Pioneer     Guarantor      Income Tax                      The
                                    (Parent)      USA      Subsidiaries     Provision    Eliminations    Company
                                   ---------   ---------   ------------   ------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                                <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenues:
  Oil and gas...................   $     -     $ 523,736    $ 187,756      $      -       $             $  711,492
  Interest and other............          38       7,937        2,477             -                         10,452
  Loss on disposition of
    assets, net.................         -          (477)          32             -                           (445)
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
                                          38     531,196      190,265             -                        721,499
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
Costs and expenses:
  Oil and gas production........         -       164,964       58,587             -                        223,551
  Depletion, depreciation and
    amortization................         -       225,127      112,181             -                        337,308
  Impairment of oil and gas
    properties..................         -       237,529      221,990             -                        459,519
  Exploration and abandonments..         -        71,851       50,007             -                        121,858
  General and administrative....       2,042      57,158       13,800             -                         73,000
  Reorganization................         -        31,756        1,443                                       33,199
  Interest......................     (54,237)    159,863       58,659             -                        164,285
  Equity loss from subsidiary...     675,142       4,358          -               -        (679,500)           -
  Other.........................         722      22,732       16,151             -                         39,605
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
                                     623,669     975,338      532,818             -                      1,452,325
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
Loss before income taxes........    (623,631)   (444,142)    (342,553)            -                       (730,826)
Income tax provision............         -          (174)     107,369        (122,795)                     (15,600)
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
Net loss........................    (623,631)   (444,316)    (235,184)       (122,795)                    (746,426)
Other comprehensive income:
  Translation adjustment........         -           -          2,903             -                          2,903
                                    --------    --------     --------       ---------                    ---------
Comprehensive loss..............   $(623,631)  $(444,316)   $(232,281)     $ (122,795)                  $ (743,523)
                                    ========    ========     ========       =========                    =========
</TABLE>



                                       68

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by operating activities..................  $   213,491   $ 118,300     $  98,305    $   430,096
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets........................          -        92,342        10,394        102,736
  Additions to oil and gas properties........................          -      (179,861)     (119,821)      (299,682)
  Other property (additions) dispositions, net...............          -       (10,004)       12,449          2,445
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in investing activities...............          -       (97,523)      (96,978)      (194,501)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt............................      922,607         -             -          922,607
  Principal payments on long-term debt.......................   (1,099,107)       (828)          -       (1,099,935)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities..........................          -       (24,261)       (5,498)       (29,759)
  Purchase of treasury stock.................................      (27,298)        -             -          (27,298)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs..........................      (13,847)        -             -          (13,847)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases.....        4,164         -             -            4,164
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities...............     (213,481)    (25,089)       (5,498)      (244,068)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.........           10      (4,312)       (4,171)        (8,473)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -            (156)          (156)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period...............            5      22,699        12,084         34,788
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period.....................  $        15   $  18,387     $   7,757    $    26,159
                                                                ==========    ========      ========     ==========
</TABLE>

                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor         The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries     Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   -----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities........  $   152,485   $(230,625)    $ 333,374    $   255,234
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets........................          -       328,182        62,349        390,531
  Additions to oil and gas properties........................          -       (74,257)     (105,412)      (179,669)
  Other property additions, net..............................          -        (8,335)       (3,532)       (11,867)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities           -       245,590       (46,595)       198,995
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt............................      355,493         -             -          355,493
  Principal payments on long-term debt.......................     (504,493)     (1,192)     (288,234)      (793,919)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities..........................          -       (29,006)       (4,996)       (34,002)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs..........................       (6,891)        -             -           (6,891)
  Exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases.....          250         -             -              250
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
         Net cash used in financing activities...............     (155,641)    (30,198)     (293,230)      (479,069)
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents....................       (3,156)    (15,233)       (6,451)       (24,840)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -             407            407
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period...............        3,161      37,932        18,128         59,221
                                                                ----------    --------      --------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period.....................  $         5   $  22,699     $  12,084    $    34,788
                                                                ==========    ========      ========     ==========
</TABLE>


                                       69

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


                 CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998
                                 (in thousands)
<TABLE>

                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                 Natural
                                                                Resources                    Non-
                                                                 Company      Pioneer     Guarantor        The
                                                                 (Parent)       USA      Subsidiaries    Company
                                                               -----------   ---------   ------------   ----------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities........  $  (151,315)  $ 313,359    $ 152,032     $  314,076
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Proceeds from disposition of assets......................            -        13,791        8,085         21,876
  Additions to oil and gas properties......................            -      (309,639)    (197,698)      (507,337)
  Other property additions, net............................            -       (15,862)     (15,684)       (31,546)
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
         Net cash used in investing activities.............            -      (311,710)    (205,297)      (517,007)
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Borrowings under long-term debt..........................        886,008         -         61,172        947,180
  Principal payments on long-term debt.....................       (704,857)     (1,326)      (5,341)      (711,524)
  Payment of noncurrent liabilities........................            -       (11,424)      (5,667)       (17,091)
  Dividends................................................         (9,160)        -           (916)       (10,076)
  Purchase of treasury stock...............................        (10,367)        -            -          (10,367)
  Deferred loan fees/issuance costs........................         (7,189)        -            -           (7,189)
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
         Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities       154,435     (12,750)      49,248        190,933
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......          3,120     (11,101)      (4,017)       (11,998)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents           -           -           (494)          (494)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............             41      49,033       22,639         71,713
                                                                ----------    --------     --------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................    $     3,161   $  37,932    $  18,128     $   59,221
                                                                ==========    ========     ========      =========
</TABLE>

                                       70

<PAGE>



                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

Capitalized Costs
                                                                    December 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2000         1999
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                   (in thousands)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
   Oil and Gas Properties:
     Proved................................................   $3,187,889   $2,997,335
     Unproved..............................................      229,205      257,583
                                                               ---------    ---------
                                                               3,417,094    3,254,918
     Less accumulated depletion............................     (902,139)    (751,956)
                                                               ---------    ---------
     Net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties......   $2,514,955   $2,502,962
                                                               =========    =========
</TABLE>


Costs Incurred for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
<TABLE>

                                              Property
                                          Acquisition Costs                                  Total
                                        ---------------------   Exploration   Development    Costs
                                         Proved     Unproved       Costs         Costs      Incurred
                                        ---------   ---------   -----------   -----------   ---------
                                                               (in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2000:
  United States......................   $  26,102   $  28,199    $  65,023    $   84,798    $ 204,122
  Argentina..........................       1,169         520       35,406        31,335       68,430
  Canada.............................       8,709       2,506        6,744        25,632       43,591
  Other foreign (a)..................         -           -         23,597           -         23,597
                                         --------    --------     --------     ---------      -------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  35,980   $  31,225    $ 130,770    $  141,765    $ 339,740
                                         ========    ========     ========     =========     ========
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
  United States......................   $     937   $   3,185    $  42,337    $   59,204    $ 105,663
  Argentina..........................      36,312       2,517       12,597        25,228       76,654
  Canada.............................         174      (7,375)       1,431        17,322       11,552
  Other foreign (b)..................         151         -          7,106           -          7,257
                                         --------    --------     --------     ---------      -------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  37,574   $  (1,673)   $  63,471    $  101,754    $ 201,126
                                         ========    ========     ========     =========     ========
Year Ended December 31, 1998:
  United States......................   $  19,658   $  34,092    $  62,747    $  213,943    $ 330,440
  Argentina (c)......................       4,504      67,010       22,521        39,049      133,084
  Canada (c).........................       1,185     (93,349)      21,871        47,550      (22,743)
  Other foreign (d)..................        (136)        -         21,706           412       21,982
                                         --------    --------     --------     ---------      -------
    Total costs incurred.............   $  25,211   $   7,753    $ 128,845    $  300,954    $ 462,763
                                         ========    ========     ========     =========     ========
- ---------------

(a)  Primarily  comprised  of costs to drill  three  wells in South  Africa plus
     geological and geophysical costs in South Africa and Gabon.
(b)  Primarily  comprised of  South Africa and  Gabon geological and geophysical
     costs.
(c)  Includes  1998  Chauvco  purchase  price  adjustments of $59.9  million for
     Argentina and $(99.4) million for Canada.
(d)  Primarily comprised of costs to drill five wells in South Africa.

</TABLE>
                                      71

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


Results of Operations

       Information  about the Company's  results of  operations  for oil and gas
producing  activities  is  presented  in  Note O of the  accompanying  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve Quantity Information

       The  estimates of the Company's  proved oil and gas  reserves,  which are
located principally in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa are
prepared by the Company's engineers.  Reserves were estimated in accordance with
guidelines  established by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board,
which require that reserve  estimates be prepared  under  existing  economic and
operating  conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations except by
contractual arrangements.  The reserve estimates for 2000, 1999 and 1998 utilize
respective  oil  prices  of  $25.71,  $24.33  and  $10.09  per  Bbl  (reflecting
adjustments for oil quality and gathering and transportation costs);  respective
NGL prices of $16.74,  $17.59 and $6.81 per Bbl; and,  respective  gas prices of
$7.50,  $1.83  and  $1.64  per Mcf  (reflecting  adjustments  for  Btu  content,
gathering and transportation costs and gas processing and shrinkage).

       Oil  and  gas  reserve   quantity   estimates  are  subject  to  numerous
uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in
the  projection  of future  rates of  production  and the timing of  development
expenditures.  The  accuracy of such  estimates  is a function of the quality of
available data and of engineering  and geological  interpretation  and judgment.
Results of subsequent  drilling,  testing and production may cause either upward
or downward revision of previous estimates.  Further,  the volumes considered to
be  commercially  recoverable  fluctuate  with  changes in prices and  operating
costs. The Company  emphasizes that reserve  estimates are inherently  imprecise
and that estimates of new discoveries are more imprecise than those of currently
producing oil and gas properties.  Accordingly,  these estimates are expected to
change as additional information becomes available in the future.

                                       72

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

Oil and Gas Producing Activities:
                                               2000                             1999                             1998
                                   -----------------------------   ------------------------------   -----------------------------
                                     Oil                             Oil                              Oil
                                   & NGLs       Gas                & NGLs      Gas                  & NGLs      Gas
Total Proved Reserves:             (MBbls)     (MMCF)     MBOE     (MBbls)    (MMCF)       MBOE     (MBbls)    (MMCF)      MBOE
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
<S>                                <C>       <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES
Balance, January 1...............  259,066   1,314,842   478,206   269,638   1,545,644    527,246   329,316   1,719,130   615,838
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......   10,972      29,055    15,814    70,536      99,604     87,137   (21,327)    (33,706)  (26,945)
  Other..........................    8,323      34,857    14,133   (18,887)     97,229     (2,682)  (12,884)      1,593   (12,618)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...    1,237      28,071     5,916       -           -          -         -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...    4,819      66,486    15,900       149       1,351        374       183       3,438       756
Production.......................  (16,872)    (83,930)  (30,860)  (20,163)   (106,095)   (37,845)  (25,327)   (137,741)  (48,284)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......     (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)  (42,207)   (322,891)   (96,024)     (323)     (7,070)   (1,501)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............  266,802   1,354,327   492,523   259,066   1,314,842    478,206   269,638   1,545,644   527,246

ARGENTINA
Balance, January 1...............   29,797     415,620    99,067    24,219     428,334     95,608    31,612     340,392    88,344
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......      -           -         -         -           -          -         -           -         -
  Other..........................    1,411     (15,558)   (1,182)   (2,441)    (12,470)    (4,520)   (7,615)     76,843     5,192
Purchases of minerals-in-place...      -           -         -       4,406      17,483      7,320       -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...    8,066      43,914    15,385     6,182      16,750      8,974     3,522      37,900     9,839
Production.......................   (3,431)    (35,694)   (9,380)   (2,569)    (34,477)    (8,315)   (3,300)    (26,801)   (7,767)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......      -           -         -         -           -          -         -           -         -
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............   35,843     408,282   103,890    29,797     415,620     99,067    24,219     428,334    95,608

CANADA
Balance, January 1...............    3,970     145,251    28,179    12,447     249,230     53,985    22,796     207,868    57,441
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......     (119)    (10,116)   (1,805)      169      (1,113)       (18)      (49)     (4,159)     (740)
  Other..........................      548         103       565     4,696     (61,243)    (5,509)   (6,856)     64,406     3,875
Purchases of minerals-in-place...      140       7,768     1,435       -           -          -           2         -           2
New discoveries and extensions...      138       6,132     1,160       -           -          -         261       5,951     1,253
Production.......................     (611)    (16,219)   (3,315)   (1,960)    (17,886)    (4,941)   (3,596)    (19,371)   (6,824)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......      -           -         -     (11,382)    (23,737)   (15,338)     (111)     (5,465)   (1,022)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    4,066     132,919    26,219     3,970     145,251     28,179    12,447     249,230    53,985

SOUTH AFRICA
Balance, January 1...............      -           -         -         -           -          -         -           -         -
New discoveries and extensions...    5,552         -       5,552       -           -          -         -           -         -
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............    5,552         -       5,552       -           -          -         -           -         -

TOTAL
Balance, January 1...............  292,833   1,875,713   605,452   306,304   2,223,208    676,839   383,724   2,267,390   761,623
Revisions of previous estimates:
  Related to price changes.......   10,853      18,939    14,009    70,705      98,491     87,119   (21,376)    (37,865)  (27,685)
  Other..........................   10,282      19,402    13,516   (16,632)     23,516    (12,711)  (27,355)    142,842    (3,551)
Purchases of minerals-in-place...    1,377      35,839     7,351     4,406      17,483      7,320         2         -           2
New discoveries and extensions...   18,575     116,532    37,997     6,331      18,101      9,348     3,966      47,289    11,848
Production.......................  (20,914)   (135,843)  (43,555)  (24,692)   (158,458)   (51,101)  (32,223)   (183,913)  (62,875)
Sales of minerals-in-place.......     (743)    (35,054)   (6,586)  (53,589)   (346,628)  (111,362)     (434)    (12,535)   (2,523)
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
Balance, December 31.............  312,263   1,895,528   628,184   292,833   1,875,713    605,452   306,304   2,223,208   676,839
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========   =======   =========   =======
Proved Developed Reserves:
  United States..................  209,636   1,118,976   396,133   240,588   1,422,430    477,659   289,157   1,563,882   549,804
  Argentina......................   22,931     358,124    82,618    22,172     368,940     83,662    21,120     260,501    64,537
  Canada.........................    2,598      61,210    12,800    12,193     210,405     47,261    19,643     132,275    41,689
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
    January 1....................  235,165   1,538,310   491,551   274,953   2,001,775    608,582   329,920   1,956,658   656,030
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========   =======   =========   =======
  United States..................  206,922   1,081,592   387,188   209,636   1,118,976    396,133   240,588   1,422,430   477,659
  Argentina......................   22,679     345,281    80,226    22,931     358,124     82,618    22,172     368,940    83,662
  Canada.........................    2,930      80,953    16,422     2,598      61,210     12,800    12,193     210,405    47,261
                                   -------   ---------   -------   -------   ---------   --------   -------   ---------   -------
    December 31..................  232,531   1,507,826   483,836   235,165   1,538,310    491,551   274,953   2,001,775   608,582
                                   =======   =========   =======   =======   =========   ========   =======   =========   =======
</TABLE>

                                       73

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998


Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows

       The standardized  measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed
by applying year-end prices of oil and gas (with  consideration of price changes
only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements) to the estimated future
production of proved oil and gas reserves  less  estimated  future  expenditures
(based on year-end  costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved
reserves,  discounted  using a rate  of 10  percent  per  year  to  reflect  the
estimated timing of the future cash flows. Future income taxes are calculated by
comparing  discounted  future  cash  flows  to the  tax  basis  of oil  and  gas
properties plus available carryforwards and credits and applying the current tax
rates to the difference.

       Discounted  future  cash flow  estimates  like those  shown below are not
intended to  represent  estimates  of the fair value of oil and gas  properties.
Estimates  of fair value should also  consider  probable  reserves,  anticipated
future oil and gas prices, interest rates, changes in development and production
costs and risks  associated with future  production.  Because of these and other
considerations,  any  estimate  of fair  value  is  necessarily  subjective  and
imprecise.
<TABLE>

                                                                For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------------------
                                                               2000          1999          1998
                                                           -----------   -----------   -----------
                                                                        (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
UNITED STATES Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................  $18,660,169   $ 8,143,587   $ 5,050,473
   Future production costs...............................   (4,907,134)   (2,823,316)   (2,281,406)
   Future development costs..............................     (479,290)     (288,801)     (227,727)
   Future income tax expense.............................   (3,777,157)     (855,875)          -
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                             9,496,588     4,175,595     2,541,340
10% annual discount factor...............................   (4,780,133)   (1,837,826)   (1,314,471)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....  $ 4,716,455   $ 2,337,769   $ 1,226,869
                                                            ==========    ==========    ==========
ARGENTINA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................  $ 1,183,652   $ 1,075,904   $   686,911
   Future production costs...............................     (215,853)     (199,513)     (196,446)
   Future development costs..............................     (114,606)      (79,336)      (45,710)
   Future income tax expense.............................      (81,705)      (87,274)          -
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                               771,488       709,781       444,755
10% annual discount factor...............................     (264,126)     (240,681)     (211,956)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....  $   507,362   $   469,100   $   232,799
                                                            ==========    ==========    ==========
CANADA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................  $ 1,029,007   $   354,662   $   526,844
   Future production costs...............................     (104,189)      (91,913)     (163,414)
   Future development costs..............................      (35,443)      (54,571)      (49,380)
   Future income tax expense.............................     (306,399)       (2,522)      (30,797)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                               582,976       205,656       283,253
10% annual discount factor...............................     (168,441)      (75,266)      (94,113)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....  $   414,535   $   130,390   $   189,140
                                                            ==========    ==========    ==========
SOUTH AFRICA
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................  $   126,134   $       -     $       -
   Future production costs...............................      (65,232)          -             -
   Future development costs..............................      (47,970)          -             -
   Future income tax expense.............................          -             -             -
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                12,932           -             -
10% annual discount factor...............................       (5,782)          -             -
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....  $     7,150   $       -     $       -
                                                            ==========    ==========    ==========
TOTAL
Oil and gas producing activities:
   Future cash inflows...................................  $20,998,962   $ 9,574,153   $ 6,264,228
   Future production costs...............................   (5,292,408)   (3,114,742)   (2,641,266)
   Future development costs..............................     (677,309)     (422,708)     (322,817)
   Future income tax expense.............................   (4,165,261)     (945,671)      (30,797)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                            10,863,984     5,091,032     3,269,348
10% annual discount factor...............................   (5,218,482)   (2,153,773)   (1,620,540)
                                                            ----------    ----------    ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows.....  $ 5,645,502   $ 2,937,259   $ 1,648,808
                                                            ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

                                       74

<PAGE>


                        PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

                       UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                  Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

<TABLE>

                                                                For the Year Ended December 31,
                                                           ---------------------------------------
Oil and Gas Producing Activities                               2000         1999           1998
                                                           -----------   ----------    -----------
                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
   Oil and gas sales, net of production costs............  $  (663,473)  $ (485,116)   $  (487,942)
   Net changes in prices and production costs............    3,829,794    1,571,584     (1,281,944)
   Extensions and discoveries............................      525,361       60,695         44,018
   Sales of minerals-in-place............................      (72,624)    (468,376)       (12,748)
   Purchases of minerals-in-place........................      187,097       56,309              3
   Revisions of estimated future development costs.......      (99,384)    (115,043)        (2,777)
   Revisions of previous quantity estimates..............      344,454      387,616        (68,086)
   Accretion of discount.................................      293,726      164,881        307,567
   Changes in production rates, timing and other.........     (262,784)     115,901         75,045
                                                            ----------    ---------     ----------
   Change in present value of future net revenues........    4,082,167    1,288,451     (1,426,864)
   Net change in present value of future income taxes....   (1,373,924)         -           23,908
                                                            ----------    ---------     ----------
                                                             2,708,243    1,288,451     (1,402,956)
   Balance, beginning of year............................    2,937,259    1,648,808      3,051,764
                                                            ----------    --------      ----------

   Balance, end of year..................................  $ 5,645,502   $2,937,259    $ 1,648,808
                                                            ==========    =========     ==========
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
Selected Quarterly Financial Results
                                                                          Quarter
                                                       ---------------------------------------------
                                                         First      Second       Third      Fourth
                                                       ---------   ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                           (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
2000
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 174,375   $ 197,947   $ 228,587   $ 251,829
       Total revenues...............................   $ 186,502   $ 198,354   $ 257,945   $ 269,896
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 172,032   $ 203,697   $ 192,557   $ 185,912
       Net income (loss):
          Before extraordinary item.................   $  14,770   $  (3,743)  $  69,288   $  84,184
          Extraordinary item, net of tax*...........         -       (12,318)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
          Net income (loss).........................   $  14,770   $ (16,061)  $  69,288   $  84,184
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
       Net income (loss) per share:
          Basic:
            Before extraordinary item...............   $     .15   $    (.04)  $     .70   $     .86
            Extraordinary item......................         -          (.12)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .15   $    (.16)  $     .70   $     .86
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
          Diluted:
            Before extraordinary item...............   $     .15   $    (.04)  $     .69   $     .85
            Extraordinary item......................         -          (.12)        -           -
                                                        --------    --------    --------    --------
            Net income (loss).......................   $     .15   $    (.16)  $     .69   $     .85
                                                        ========    ========    ========    ========
1999
       Operating revenues...........................   $ 147,151   $ 174,231   $ 159,855   $ 163,409
       Total revenues...............................   $ 193,191   $ 134,744   $ 213,165   $ 169,035
       Costs and expenses...........................   $ 195,292   $ 209,860   $ 166,137   $ 161,906
       Net income (loss)............................   $  (2,501)  $ (74,616)  $  46,428   $   8,229
       Net income (loss) per share..................   $    (.02)  $    (.74)  $     .46   $     .08

*  As a result of the early  extinguishment of a revolving credit facility,  the
   Company  recognized an  extraordinary  loss of $12.3  million,  net of taxes,
   during the quarter ended June 30, 2000. (See Note D of the accompanying Notes
   to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
</TABLE>
                                       75

<PAGE>



                                    PART III


ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 17, 2001 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 17, 2001 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
               MANAGEMENT

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 17, 2001 and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

       The  information  required  in  response to this item is set forth in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to
be held on May 17, 2001 and is incorporated herein by reference.



                                    PART IV.


ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits

  Financial Statements

       The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the  Company  are
included in "Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":

       Independent Auditors' Report
       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for
         the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
       Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  for the years  ended
         December 31, 2000,  1999 and 1998
       Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended  December  31,
         2000, 1999 and 1998
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
       Unaudited Supplementary Information

       All other  statements  and schedules  for which  provision is made in the
applicable accounting  regulations of the SEC have been omitted because they are
not required under related instructions or are inapplicable,  or the information
is shown in the financial statements and related notes.


                                       76

<PAGE>



  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                                 Description


3.1     -   Amended  and  Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation of the Company
            (incorporated  by  reference   to  Exhibit  3.1  to  the   Company's
            Registration   Statement   on  Form   S-4,   dated   June 27,  1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

3.2     -   Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            3.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June
            27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

3.3     -   Certificate  of  Designations  of  Special  Preferred  Voting  Stock
            (incorporated  by   reference  to   Exhibit 3.3  of  the   Company's
            Registration  Statement on  Form S-3,  Registration  No.  333-42315,
            filed with the SEC on December 17, 1997).

3.4     -   Terms  and  Conditions  of  Exchangeable  Shares   (incorporated  by
            reference to Annex F to the Definitive  Joint Management Information
            Circular and  Proxy Statement of  the Company and  Chauvco Resources
            Ltd. ("Chauvco"), File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on November
            17, 1997).

4.1     -   Form of  Certificate of  Common Stock,  par value $.01 per share, of
            the Company  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to  the
            Company's  Registration Statement on Form S-4,  dated June 27, 1997,
            Registration No. 333-26951).

4.2     -   Form of Certificate of Special Preferred Voting  Stock (incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report  on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

4.3     -   Form  of  Certificate  of   Exchangeable  Shares   (incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  4.2 to  the Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

9.1     -   Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement, dated as of December 18,  1997,
            among the Company, Pioneer Natural Resources (Canada) Ltd. ("Pioneer
            Canada")  and   Montreal  Trust  Company  of  Canada,   as   Trustee
            incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 2.4 to  the Company's Current
            Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.1    -   Indenture, dated July 2, 1996,  among Pioneer USA (formerly MOC), as
            Issuer,  the Company,  as  Guarantor,  and Harris Trust and  Savings
            Bank,  as Trustee,  relating  to  the  11-5/8%  Senior  Subordinated
            Discount Notes Due 2006  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 4.17
            to  Mesa's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June
            30, 1996).

10.2    -   First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated  as of April 15, 1997,  among
            Pioneer  USA  (formerly  MOC),   as  Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary
            guarantors named therein,  the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings
            Bank, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.1  to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q  for  the  period  ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.3    -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of  August 7,  1997,  among
            Pioneer  USA  (formerly   MOC),  as  Issuer,  Mesa,  the  subsidiary
            guarantors named therein,  the Company, and Harris Trust and Savings
            Bank, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit 10.1  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 10.2  to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).


                                       77

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                  Description


10.4    -   Third Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 18, 1997,  among
            Pioneer USA,  the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein,  the Company,
            and Harris  Trust and Savings Bank,  as Trustee, with respect to the
            indenture  identified   above  as  Exhibit  10.1   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 10.12 to the  Company's Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.5    -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
            Pioneer USA (formerly MOC),  a Delaware corporation,  the Company, a
            Delaware corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc.,  a Texas corporation,
            and Harris  Trust and  Savings  Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as
            Trustee,  with respect to  the indenture identified above as Exhibit
            10.1  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's
            Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245, filed with the SEC
            on January 2, 1998).

10.6    -   Fifth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
            Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.  (as  successor  to  Pioneer  USA),  a Texas
            corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation, Pioneer DebtCo.,
            Inc.,  a Texas corporation,  and Harris Trust  and Savings Bank,  an
            Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee,  with respect  to the  indenture
            identified  above  as  Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit  10.14 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.7    -   Sixth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
            Pioneer  DebtCo.  Inc.  (as successor to Pioneer NewSub1,  Inc.),  a
            Texas corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation, and Harris
            Trust and Savings Bank,  an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee,  with
            respect  to  the   indenture   identified  above  as   Exhibit  10.1
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's Current
            Report on  Form 8-K,  File  No.  001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.8    -   Indenture,  dated July 2, 1996, among Pioneer USA (formerly MOC), as
            Issuer,  the Company  (Mesa's successor),  as Guarantor,  and Harris
            Trust and Savings  Bank,  as Trustee, relating to the 10-5/8% Senior
            Subordinated  Notes Due 2006  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
            4.18 to Mesa's  Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended
            June 30, 1996).

 10.9   -   First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of April 15,  1997,  among
            Pioneer  USA  (formerly  MOC),   as  Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary
            Guarantors named therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings
            Bank, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit  10.8  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.3  to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.10   -   Second  Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of August 7,  1997,  among
            Pioneer  USA  (formerly  MOC),   as  Issuer,  Mesa,  the  Subsidiary
            Guarantors named therein, the Company,  and Harris Trust and Savings
            Bank, as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture identified above as
            Exhibit  10.8  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit 10.4 to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the  period ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.11   -   Third Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 18, 1997,  among
            Pioneer USA,  the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein,  the Company,
            and Harris Trust and Savings Bank,  as Trustee,  with respect to the
            indenture  identified   above  as  Exhibit  10.8   (incorporated  by
            reference to  Exhibit 10.6 to  the Company's  Current Report on Form
            8-K, File No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.12   -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer  USA,  a  Delaware  corporation,  the  Company,  a  Delaware
            corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas corporation, and Harris
            Trust and Savings Bank,  an Illinois corporation,  as Trustee,  with
            respect  to   the  indenture  identified   above  as   Exhibit  10.8
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the  Company's Current
            Report on  Form 8-K,  File  No.  001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).


                                       78

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.13   -   Fifth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
            Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.  (as  successor  to  Pioneer  USA),  a Texas
            corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation,  Pioneer DebtCo,
            Inc,  a Texas  corporation,  and Harris  Trust and  Savings Bank, an
            Illinois  corporation,  as  Trustee,  with respect to  the indenture
            identified  above as  Exhibit  10.8  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 10.8  to the  Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.14   -   Sixth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997,  among
            Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc.), a
            Texas corporation,  the Company,  a Delaware corporation, and Harris
            Trust and Savings Bank,  an Illinois  corporation,  as Trustee, with
            respect   to  the  indenture  identified   above   as  Exhibit  10.8
            (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Current
            Report  on Form  8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.15   -   Indenture,  dated April 12, 1995,  between Pioneer USA (successor to
            Parker  &  Parsley),   and  The  Chase   Manhattan  Bank   (National
            Association),  as Trustee (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 4.1
            to Parker & Parsley's  Current Report  on Form 8-K,  dated April 12,
            1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.16   -   First  Supplemental  Indenture,  dated as of  August 7, 1997,  among
            Parker & Parsley, The Chase Manhattan Bank,  as Trustee, and Pioneer
            USA, with respect to the indenture identified above as Exhibit 10.15
            (incorporated  by  reference  to   Exhibit  10.5  to  the  Company's
            Quarterly  Report on  Form 10-Q for the  period ended  September 30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.17   -   Second Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer USA, a Delaware corporation,  Pioneer NewSub1, Inc., a Texas
            corporation,  and  The  Chase  Manhattan Bank,  a New  York  banking
            association,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture  identified
            above as Exhibit 10.15  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.17
            to the  Company's Current  Report on Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.18   -   Third Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30,  1997, among
            Pioneer  New Sub1,  Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer  USA),  a  Texas
            corporation,  Pioneer  DebtCo, Inc.,  a Texas  corporation,  and The
            Chase Manhattan Bank,  a New York banking association,  as  Trustee,
            with respect  to the  indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit 10.15
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Current
            Report on Form  8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.19   -   Fourth Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of December 30, 1997, among
            Pioneer DebtCo,  Inc.  (as successor to  Pioneer  NewSub1,  Inc., as
            successor to  Pioneer USA),  a  Texas corporation,  the  Company,  a
            Delaware corporation,  Pioneer USA,  a Delaware corporation, and The
            Chase  Manhattan Bank,  a New York banking association,  as Trustee,
            with respect to  the indenture  identified  above as  Exhibit  10.15
            (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Company's Current
            Report on  Form  8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on
            January 2, 1998).

10.20   -   Guarantee, dated as of December 30, 1997, by Pioneer USA relating to
            the  $150,000,000 in  aggregate  principal  amount of  8-7/8% Senior
            Notes due 2005  and $150,000,000 in  aggregate  principal  amount of
            8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007  issued under the indenture  identified
            above as Exhibit 10.15  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.20
            to the Company's Current  Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.  001-13245,
            filed with the SEC on January 2, 1998).

10.21   -   Form of 8-7/8% Senior Notes Due 2005, dated as of April 12, 1995, in
            the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $150,000,000,  together  with
            Officers' Certificate dated April 12,  1995,  establishing the terms
            of the 8-7/8%  Senior  Notes  Due  2005  pursuant  to the  indenture
            identified  above as  Exhibit  10.15  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit 4.2 to Parker & Parsley's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the period ended June 30, 1995, File No. 001-10695).


                                       79

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.22   -   Form of 8-1/4% Senior Notes due 2007,  dated as of August 22,  1995,
            in the aggregate  principal  amount of $150,000,000,  together  with
            Officers' Certificate  dated August 22, 1995, establishing the terms
            of the 8-1/4%  Senior Notes  due  2007  pursuant  to  the  indenture
            identified  above as  Exhibit 10.15  (incorporated  by  reference to
            Exhibit 1.2 to Parker & Parsley's Current Report on Form 8-K,  dated
            August 17, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.23   -   Indenture,  dated January 13, 1998, between the Company and The Bank
            of New York,  as Trustee  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1
            to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K,  File
            No. 001-13245, filed with the SEC on  January 14, 1998).

10.24   -   First Supplemental Indenture,  dated as of  January 13, 1998,  among
            the Company, Pioneer USA, as the Subsidiary Guarantor,  and The Bank
            of New York,  as Trustee,  with respect to the indenture  identified
            above as Exhibit 10.23 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
            the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current Report on Form 8-K, File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.25   -   Form of 6.50%  Senior Notes Due 2008 of the Company (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on  Form  8-K,  File  No. 001-13245,  filed  with the  SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

10.26   -   Form of 7.20% Senior Notes Due 2028 of the Company  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's and Pioneer USA's Current
            Report on  Form  8-K,  File No.  001-13245,  filed with  the  SEC on
            January 14, 1998).

10.27   -   Guarantee (2008 Notes), dated as of January 13,  1998,  entered into
            by Pioneer  USA  (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 99.5  to the
            Company's  and  Pioneer USA's  Current Report on Form 8-K,  File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.28   -   Guarantee (2028 Notes), dated as of January 13,  1998,  entered into
            by Pioneer USA  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  99.6 to the
            Company's and Pioneer  USA's  Current Report on  Form 8-K,  File No.
            001-13245, filed with the SEC on January 14, 1998).

10.29H  -   1991 Stock Option Plan of Mesa (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10(v) to  Mesa's Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  for the  period ended
            December 31, 1991).

10.30H  -   1996 Incentive  Plan of Mesa  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit
            10.28 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-4,  dated
            June 27, 1997, Registration No. 333-26951).

10.31H  -   Parker & Parsley Long-Term Incentive Plan,  dated February 19,  1991
            (incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  4.1 to Parker &  Parsley's
            Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-38971).

10.32H  -   First Amendment  to the  Parker & Parsley Long-Term  Incentive Plan,
            dated August 23, 1991  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
            Parker  &  Parsley's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,  dated
            February 28, 1992, Registration No. 33-46082).

10.33H  -   The Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit 4.1  to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-8,
            Registration No. 333-35087).

10.34H  -   First Amendment to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of November 23, 1998 (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit 10.72
            to the  Company's  Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the  period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).


                                       80

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                 Description


10.35H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of May 20, 1999  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.73 to
            the  Company's  Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  for the  period  ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.36H  -   Amendment No. 3 to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective
            as of February 17, 2000 (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.76
            to the  Company's  Annual Report  on Form 10-K  for the period ended
            December 31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.37H  -   The  Company's  Employee   Stock  Purchase  Plan   (incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-35165).

10.38H  -   Amendment No.1 to the Company's Employee Stock  Purchase Plan, dated
            December 9, 1998 (incorporated  by reference to the Company's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,  1998, File No.
            001-13245).

10.39H  -   Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated
            December 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.74 to the
            Company's Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the period  ended December
            31, 1999, File No. 1-13245).

10.40H  -   The Company's Deferred Compensation Retirement Plan (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's Registration Statement on
            Form S-8, Registration No. 333-39153).

10.41H  -   Pioneer USA 401(k) Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
            the Company's Registration  Statement on Form S-8,  Registration No.
            333-39249).

10.42H  -   Pioneer USA  Matching  Plan  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit
            10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.43H  -   Omnibus Amendment to Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreements,  included
            as part of the Parker & Parsley  Long-Term  Incentive Plan, dated as
            of November  16, 1995,  between Parker & Parsley and Named Executive
            Officers  identified on  Schedule 1 setting forth additional details
            relating   to  the   Parker  &  Parsley   Long-Term  Incentive  Plan
            (incorporated  by reference to Parker & Parsley's  Annual  Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 001-10695).

10.44H  -   Severance Agreement, dated as of August 8, 1997, between the Company
            and  Scott  D.  Sheffield,  together  with  a  schedule  identifying
            substantially  identical  agreements between the Company and each of
            the other named executive officers  identified on Schedule I for the
            purpose  of  defining  the  payment  of  certain  benefits  upon the
            termination of the officer's employment under certain  circumstances
            (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7  to  the  Company's
            Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period  ended  September  30,
            1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.45H  -   Indemnification Agreement, dated as of August 8,  1997,  between the
            Company and Scott D. Sheffield, together with a schedule identifying
            substantially  identical  agreements  the  Company  and  each of the
            Company's other directors and named executive officers identified on
            Schedule  I  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.8  to the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q  for the  period  ended
            September 30, 1997, File No. 001-13245).

10.46   -   "B" Contract Production Allocation Agreement,  dated July 29,  1991,
            and effective as of January 1, 1991, between Colorado Interstate Gas
            Company and  Mesa  Operating  Limited  Partnership  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10(r)  to Mesa's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
            the period ended December 31, 1991).


                                       81

<PAGE>



Exhibit
Number                                Description


10.47   -   Amendment to "B" Contract  Production Allocation Agreement effective
            as of January 1, 1993,  between Colorado  Interstate Gas Company and
            Mesa Operating  Limited  Partnership  (incorporated by  reference to
            Exhibit  10.24  to   Mesa's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1,
            Registration No. 33-51909).

10.48   -   Voting  and  Shareholders  Agreement  dated as of  February 8,  2000
            between Prize  Energy Corp.  and its  stockholders  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's statement on Schedule 13D
            relating to the common stock of  Prize Energy Corp.,  filed with the
            SEC on February 18, 2000, File No. 005-54797).

10.49    -  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2000, among the
            Company,  Pioneer USA,  as the subsidiary guarantor and the  Bank of
            New York,  as trustee,  with respect to the Indenture, dated January
            13, 1998,  between the Company and The Bank of New York,  as trustee
            (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  to   the  Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.50    -  Form of 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due April 1, 2010, dated as of April 11,
            2000,  in the aggregate principal  amount of $425,000,000,  together
            with  Trustee's Certificate of  Authentication dated April 11, 2000,
            establishing the terms of the 9-5/8% Senior Notes Due  April 1, 2010
            pursuant to  the Second  Supplemental Indenture  identified above as
            Exhibit  10.1  (incorporated by  reference to  Exhibit  10.2 to  the
            Company's Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q,  filed with the SEC on May
            11, 2000).

10.51    -  Guarantee,  dated  as of  April  11,  2000,  by  Pioneer  USA as the
            subsidiary   guarantor  relating  to   the  $425,000,000   aggregate
            principal amount  of 9-5/8% Senior  Notes Due April 1,  2010  issued
            under the Second Supplemental Indenture identified above as  Exhibit
            10.1  (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 11, 2000).

10.52    -  $575,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of  May 31,  2000,  among the
            Company,  as   the  borrower,  Bank  of  America,   N.A.,   as   the
            Administrative   Agent,   Credit  Suisse   First   Boston,   as  the
            Documentation  Agent , the Chase Manhattan Bank,  as the  Syndicated
            Agent and certain Lenders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
            to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q,  filed with the SEC
            on August 9, 2000).

10.53*  -   Agreement and  Plan of Merger  dated as of November 28,  2000 by and
            among  Pioneer Natural Resources Company,  Pioneer Natural Resources
            USA,  Inc.,  Parker & Parsley Employees  Producing Properties  87-A,
            Ltd.,  Parker & Parsley  Employees Producing  Properties 87-B  Ltd.,
            P&P Employees  Producing Properties  88-A, L.P.,  P&P Employees 89-A
            Conv., L.P.,  P&P Employees 89-A Conv.,  L.P.,  P&P  Employees  89-B
            Conv., L.P., P&P Employees  Private  89,  L.P.,  P&P Employees  90-A
            Conv., L.P.,  P&P Employees 90-B Conv.,  L.P.,  P&P  Employees  90-C
            Conv.,  L.P.,  P&P Employees  Private  90,  L.P.,  P&P  Employees 90
            Spraberry Private Development, L.P.,  P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P.
            and P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P.

21.1*   -   Subsidiaries of the registrant.

23.1*   -   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

- ---------------

*   Filed herewith

H Executive  Compensation Plan or Arrangement  previously filed pursuant to Item
14(c).


                                       82

<PAGE>



(b)    Reports on Form 8-K

       During the three months ended  December 31, 2000,  the Company  filed and
furnished  current  reports on Form 8-K on October 26, 2000 and on December  21,
2000, respectively. The Form 8-K filed on October 26 reported, under Item 5, the
Company's  financial and operating  results for the three and nine month periods
ended  September 30, 2000. The Form 8-K furnished on December 21 updated,  under
Item 9, the Company's fourth quarter 2000 outlook and capital budget.

(c)    Exhibits

        The exhibits to this Report  required to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c)
are listed under "Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial  Statement Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K - Listing of Financial Statements and Exhibits - Exhibits" above and
in the "Index to Exhibits" attached hereto.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedules

        No  financial  statement  schedules  are required to be filed as part of
this Report or they are inapplicable.

                                       83

<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


Date:  February  26, 2001           By:    /s/ Scott D. Sheffield
                                         -------------------------------------
                                        Scott D. Sheffield, President

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         Signature                        Title                      Date

  /s/ Scott D. Sheffield        Chairman of the Board,         February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------     President and Chief
Scott D. Sheffield               Executive Officer
                                 (principal executive officer)


  /s/ Timothy L. Dove           Executive Vice President and   February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------     Chief Financial Officer
Timothy L. Dove


  /s/ Rich Dealy                Vice President and Chief       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------     Accounting Officer
Rich Dealy


  /s/ James R. Baroffio         Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
James R. Baroffio


  /s/ R. Hartwell Gardner       Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
R. Hartwell Gardner


  /s/ James L. Houghton         Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
James L. Houghton


  /s/ Jerry P. Jones            Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
Jerry P. Jones


  /s/ Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.    Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
Charles E. Ramsey, Jr.


  /s/ Robert L. Stillwell       Director                       February 26, 2001
- ----------------------------
Robert L. Stillwell


                                       84

<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.53
                          AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER
                             (Employee Partnerships)


         THIS  AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER dated as of November 28, 2000, to be
effective as of the Closing Date (as defined  below) (this "Merger  Agreement"),
is entered  into by and among  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  Company,  a Delaware
corporation  ("Pioneer"),  Pioneer  Natural  Resources  USA,  Inc.,  a  Delaware
corporation and wholly-owned  subsidiary of Pioneer ("Pioneer USA"), and each of
the Texas limited partnerships referred to below (the "Partnerships").

                                    RECITALS:

         A. Pioneer USA is the sole general partner of each of the following
            Partnerships:
<TABLE>
<S>         <C>                                                          <C>

            Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-A,Ltd.    P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P.
            Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-B,Ltd.    P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P.
            P&P Employees Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.                P&P Employees Private 90, L.P.
            P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.                               P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P.
            P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P.                               P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P.
            P&P Employees Private 89, L.P.                               P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P.
            P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P.
</TABLE>

         B. The  board of  directors  of each of  Pioneer  and  Pioneer  USA has
determined  that it is in the best interests of Pioneer and Pioneer USA to merge
each of the  Partnerships  with and into Pioneer USA and such board of directors
has  approved the mergers  referred to below,  upon the terms and subject to the
conditions contained herein.

         C.  Pioneer USA intends to solicit the vote of the limited  partners of
each  Partnership  holding  at least a  majority  (or with  respect  to Parker &
Parsley  Employees  Producing  Properties 87-A, Ltd., Parker & Parsley Employees
Producing  Properties  87-B, Ltd. and P&P Employees  Producing  Properties 88-A,
L.P.  (the  "Super-Majority  Partnerships"),  at least  75%) of the  outstanding
partnership  interests  of such  Partnership  to  approve  the  merger  for such
Partnership.  Subject to certain limitations,  upon consummation of the mergers,
the  partners,  other than Pioneer USA, will have the right to receive an amount
of cash.

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  premises  and  the  mutual
agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE 1
                                   THE MERGERS

         1.1 Mergers.  At the Effective  Time (as defined in Section 1.4),  each
Partnership shall be merged with and into Pioneer USA, the separate existence of
such  Partnership  shall cease,  and Pioneer USA, as the surviving  corporation,
shall  continue  to exist by virtue of and shall be  governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware.

         1.2 Merger  Values and Cash  Offered.  (a) At the  Effective  Time,  by
virtue of the  mergers  and without any action on the part of Pioneer USA or the
other partners,  each partnership interest outstanding immediately prior thereto
shall be  converted  into the right to  receive a portion  of the amount of cash
allocated to the  respective  Partnership,  which portion shall be determined in
accordance  with the merger value  assigned to the  Partnership  pursuant to the
procedures set forth in the Proxy  Statement (as defined in Section 4.2) and the
procedures set forth in such Partnership's  partnership agreement for allocating
liquidation distributions. The merger value assigned to each Partnership and the
amount of cash offered to the limited partners in such  Partnership  pursuant to
the merger of such  Partnership  are set forth on Exhibit A hereto  opposite the
name of such  Partnership.  The merger  values  will not be  adjusted  as of the
Closing Date.

         (b) All partnership interests, when converted into the right to receive
cash,  shall no longer be outstanding and shall  automatically  be cancelled and
retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate  representing
any such  partnership  interests  shall  cease to have any rights  with  respect
thereto,  except the right to  receive  the  amount of cash to be  delivered  in
consideration therefor.




<PAGE>



         (c) The  partnership  interests,  whether  general or  limited,  in the
participating  partnerships  held directly or indirectly by Pioneer USA shall be
cancelled without any consideration being received therefor;  provided, however,
that as a result of the mergers, Pioneer USA will acquire 100% of the properties
of the  participating  partnerships,  including  properties  attributable to its
partnership interests in those partnerships.

         1.3  Closing.  The closing of the mergers  (the  "Closing")  shall take
place at the offices of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., 2001 Ross Avenue,  Dallas, Texas
75201, as soon as practicable  after the fulfillment of the conditions  referred
to in Article 4, or at such other time and place as the parties shall agree (the
date of such Closing being the "Closing Date").

         1.4 Effective Time of Mergers.  Upon satisfaction of the conditions set
forth in Article 4 hereof and as soon as  practicable  after the  Closing,  this
Merger  Agreement,  or a certificate  of merger  setting  forth the  information
required  by, and  otherwise  in  compliance  with,  Section  263 of the General
Corporation  Law of the State of  Delaware  (the  "DGCL")  with  respect  to the
mergers,  shall be delivered for filing with the Secretary of State of the State
of Delaware.  At such time, a certificate  of merger with respect to the mergers
setting forth the  information  required by, and  otherwise in compliance  with,
Section  2.11 the  Revised  Limited  Partnership  Act of the State of Texas (the
"TRLPA")  shall be delivered for filing with the Secretary of State of the State
of Texas.  The mergers shall become  effective upon the later of (a) the day and
at the time the  Secretary  of State of the State of Delaware  files this Merger
Agreement or certificate  of merger in compliance  with Section 263 of the DGCL,
and (b) the day and at the time  the  Secretary  of State of the  State of Texas
files such  certificate  of merger in compliance  with Section 2.11 of the TRLPA
(the  time of  such  effectiveness  is  herein  called  the  "Effective  Time").
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  by action of its  board of  directors,  either
Pioneer  or Pioneer  USA,  in its  individual  capacity  or as the sole  general
partner of the  Partnerships,  may terminate  this Merger  Agreement at any time
prior  to the  earlier  of (a)  the  filing  of  this  Merger  Agreement  or the
certificate of merger with respect to the mergers in compliance with Section 263
of the DGCL with the  Secretary  of State of the State of  Delaware  and (b) the
filing of the  certificate  of merger with respect to the mergers in  compliance
with Section 2.11 of the TRLPA with Secretary of State of the State of Texas.

         1.5 Effects of Mergers.  At the Effective  Time,  Pioneer USA,  without
further  action,  as provided by the laws of the State of Delaware and the State
of Texas, shall succeed to and possess all the rights,  privileges,  powers, and
franchises, of a public as well as of a private nature, of the Partnerships; and
all property, real, personal and mixed, and all debts due on whatsoever account,
including  subscriptions to shares,  and all other choses in action, and all and
every other  interest,  of or belonging to or due to the  Partnerships  shall be
deemed to be vested in Pioneer USA without further act or deed; and the title to
any  real  estate,  or  any  interest  therein,  vested  in  Pioneer  USA or the
Partnerships  shall  not  revert  or be in any way  impaired  by  reason  of the
mergers. Such transfer to and vesting in Pioneer USA shall be deemed to occur by
operation  of law,  and no  consent or  approval  of any other  person  shall be
required in connection  with any such transfer or vesting unless such consent or
approval is specifically required in the event of merger or consolidation by law
or  express  provision  in any  contract,  agreement,  decree,  order,  or other
instrument  to  which  Pioneer  USA or the  Partnerships  is a party or by which
either of them is bound. At and after the Effective  Time,  Pioneer USA shall be
responsible  and  liable  for  all  debts,   liabilities,   and  duties  of  the
Partnerships,  including  franchise taxes, if any, which may be enforced against
Pioneer  USA to the same extent as if said  debts,  liabilities,  and duties had
been incurred or contracted by it. Neither the rights of creditors nor any liens
upon the  property of the  Partnerships  or Pioneer USA shall be impaired by the
mergers.

         1.6  Certificate  of  Incorporation  and  Bylaws.  The  certificate  of
incorporation  of  Pioneer  USA  before  the  mergers  shall be and  remain  the
certificate of  incorporation of Pioneer USA after the Effective Time, until the
same shall  thereafter be altered,  amended,  or repealed in accordance with law
and Pioneer USA's certificate of incorporation.  The bylaws of Pioneer USA as in
effect at the  Effective  Time shall be and remain the bylaws of Pioneer USA, as
the surviving corporation,  until the same shall thereafter be altered, amended,
or repealed in accordance with law, Pioneer USA's  certificate of incorporation,
or such bylaws.

         1.7 Pioneer USA Common Stock. At the Effective  Time, each  outstanding
share of common stock of Pioneer USA shall remain outstanding and shall continue
to represent one share of common stock of Pioneer USA.

         1.8 Officers and Directors.  At the Effective Time, each of the persons
who was serving as an officer of Pioneer USA immediately  prior to the Effective
Time shall  continue to be an officer of Pioneer USA and shall continue to serve
in such capacity at the pleasure of the board of directors of Pioneer USA or, if
earlier, until their respective

                                        2

<PAGE>



death or resignation. At the Effective Time, each of the persons who was serving
as a director  of Pioneer  USA  immediately  prior to the  Effective  Time shall
continue to be a director of Pioneer USA, and each shall serve in such  capacity
until the next annual  meeting of  stockholders  of Pioneer USA and until his or
her  successor  is  elected  and  qualified  or, if  earlier,  until his  death,
resignation, or removal from office.

         1.9  Exchange of Partnership Interests for Cash.

         (a) Pioneer USA shall mail checks to the partners of record, other than
Pioneer  USA,  promptly  following  the  Closing  Date in  payment of the merger
consideration.  Limited  partners  of  participating  partnerships  will  not be
required to  surrender  partnership  interest  certificates  to receive the cash
payment.

         (b) After the Closing Date, there shall not be any further registration
of  transfers  on the  transfer  books of the  Partnerships  of the  partnership
interests that were issued and outstanding  immediately  before the Closing Date
and were  converted  into the right to receive cash. If, after the Closing Date,
certificates  representing  partnership interests of participating  partnerships
are  presented,  they  shall be  exchanged  for cash,  all as  provided  in this
Article.


                                    ARTICLE 2
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         2.1  Representations  and  Warranties  of  Partnerships.   Each  of the
Partnerships  hereby  represents  and  warrants  to Pioneer  and  Pioneer USA as
follows:

         (a) Formation; Qualification. Such Partnership is a limited partnership
duly formed under the TRLPA and is validly  existing and in good standing  under
the laws of the State of Texas.  Such Partnership has all requisite  partnership
power and authority to own,  operate or lease its properties and to carry on its
business  as now being  conducted.  Such  Partnership  is duly  qualified  to do
business  as a  foreign  limited  partnership  and is in good  standing  in each
jurisdiction where the character of its properties owned, operated or leased, or
the nature of its activities, makes such qualifications necessary.

         (b) Capitalization.  All of the  outstanding  partnership  interests of
such Partnership are duly authorized,  validly issued, free of preemptive rights
and  nonassessable.  Except as  described in the Proxy  Statement,  there are no
outstanding   subscriptions,   options  or  other  arrangements  or  commitments
obligating such Partnership to issue any additional partnership interests.

         (c) No  Conflicts.  Assuming  this Merger  Agreement is approved by the
requisite  vote  of the  limited  partners,  consummation  of  the  transactions
contemplated  hereby and compliance with the terms and provisions of this Merger
Agreement will not conflict with, result in a breach of, require notice under or
constitute a default under any material judgment,  order, injunction,  decree or
ruling of any court or governmental  authority or under any material  agreement,
indenture or instrument to which such Partnership is a party.

         (d) Authority,  Authorization and Enforceability.  Such Partnership has
all requisite  power and  authority to enter into and perform the  provisions of
this Merger  Agreement.  The execution and delivery of this Merger Agreement and
the  consummation  of  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby  have  been  duly
authorized by all necessary  partnership  action on the part of such Partnership
other than the approval of the limited partners.  Subject to such approval, this
Merger  Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such  Partnership  and
constitutes a valid and binding  obligation of such  Partnership  enforceable in
accordance with its terms.

         (e) Accuracy of Information.  None of the information supplied or to be
supplied by such Partnership for inclusion in the Proxy Statement, as amended or
supplemented,  will, at the time of the mailing of the Proxy Statement, the time
of the  special  meetings  of the  limited  partners  of the  Partnerships  (the
"Special  Meetings") or the Closing Date, be false or misleading with respect to
any material  fact,  contain any untrue  statement  of material  fact or omit to
state any material fact  required to be stated  therein or necessary in order to
make the statements  therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they
were made, not misleading.


                                        3

<PAGE>



         2.2  Representations and Warranties of Pioneer and Pioneer USA. Pioneer
and Pioneer USA hereby represent and warrant to the Partnerships as follows:

         (a) Organization;  Qualification.  Each of Pioneer and Pioneer USA is a
corporation  duly  formed  under the DGCL and is  validly  existing  and in good
standing  under the laws of the State of  Delaware.  Each of Pioneer and Pioneer
USA has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, operate or lease its
properties and to carry on its business as now being conducted.  Each of Pioneer
and Pioneer USA is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is
in good  standing in each  jurisdiction  where the  character of its  properties
owned,  operated  or  leased,  or the  nature  of  its  activities,  makes  such
qualifications necessary.

         (b) No Conflicts.  Consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby
and compliance  with the terms and provisions of this Merger  Agreement will not
conflict  with,  result in a breach of,  require  notice  under or  constitute a
default under any material judgment, order, injunction,  decree or ruling of any
court or governmental  authority or under any material  agreement,  indenture or
instrument to which Pioneer or Pioneer USA is a party.

         (c) Authority,  Authorization and  Enforceability.  Each of Pioneer and
Pioneer  USA has all  requisite  corporate  power and  authority  to execute and
deliver  this  Merger  Agreement  and to perform the  provisions  of this Merger
Agreement.  The  execution  and  delivery  of  this  Merger  Agreement  and  the
consummation of the transactions  contemplated  hereby have been duly authorized
by all  necessary  corporate  action on the part of each of Pioneer  and Pioneer
USA.  This Merger  Agreement  has been duly  executed  and  delivered by each of
Pioneer and Pioneer USA and  constitutes a valid and binding  obligation of each
of Pioneer and Pioneer USA enforceable in accordance with its terms.

         (d) Accuracy of Information.  None of the information supplied or to be
supplied  by  each  of  Pioneer  and  Pioneer  USA for  inclusion  in the  Proxy
Statement,  as amended or supplemented,  will, at the time of the mailing of the
Proxy Statement,  the time of the Special Meetings or the Closing Date, be false
or misleading with respect to any material fact, contain any untrue statement of
material fact or omit to state any material  fact required to be stated  therein
or  necessary  in order  to make the  statements  therein,  in the  light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.

         (e) Capacity as General Partner.  Pioneer USA is the sole general
partner of each of the Partnerships.


                                    ARTICLE 3
                         CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO MERGERS

         3.1 Conditions to Each Party's  Obligations to Effect the Mergers.  The
respective  obligations  of each party to effect the mergers shall be subject to
the  fulfillment  (or  waiver  in whole or in part by the  intended  beneficiary
thereof in its sole discretion) at or prior to the Closing Date of the following
conditions:

         (a) This Merger Agreement,  an amendment to the partnership  agreements
to permit the mergers (the "Merger Amendment"), the selection of special counsel
for the limited partners and that counsel's legal opinion referred to in Section
3.1(b)  shall have been  approved  by the  limited  partners  holding at least a
majority (or, with respect to the Super-Majority Partnerships,  at least 75%) of
the outstanding  limited  partnership  interests voting in person or by proxy at
the Special Meetings at which a quorum is present, with respect to each merger.

         (b) The receipt, on or prior to the Closing Date, by Pioneer USA of the
opinion of special  legal  counsel  for the  limited  partners  pursuant  to the
partnership agreements of the Partnerships.

         (c) No provision of any  applicable  law or regulation and no judgment,
injunction,  order or decree shall prohibit the  consummation of the mergers and
the transactions related thereto.

         (d) No suit, action or proceeding shall have been filed or otherwise be
pending against  Pioneer,  Pioneer USA or any officer,  director or affiliate of
Pioneer or Pioneer USA  challenging the legality or any aspect of the mergers or
the transactions related thereto.


                                        4

<PAGE>



         (e)  The   parties  to  the   mergers   having  made  all  filings  and
registrations with, and notifications to, all third parties, including,  without
limitation,  lenders and all appropriate  regulatory  authorities,  required for
consummation of the  transactions  contemplated by this Merger  Agreement (other
than the filing and recordation of appropriate  merger documents required by the
DGCL and the TRLPA),  and all approvals and  authorizations  and consents of all
third  parties,  including,  without  limitation,  lenders  and  all  regulatory
authorities,  required for consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Merger Agreement shall have been received and shall be in full force and effect,
except for such filings, registrations, notifications, approvals, authorizations
and  consents,  the failure of which to make or obtain would not have a material
adverse effect on the business or financial condition of Pioneer, Pioneer USA or
the Partnerships.

         (f) The  absence of any  opinion of counsel  that the  exercise  by the
limited  partners  of the right to approve the  mergers is not  permitted  under
applicable state law.

         3.2  Conditions to Obligations of Pioneer and Pioneer USA to Effect the
Mergers.  The obligations of Pioneer and Pioneer USA to effect the mergers shall
be subject  to the  fulfillment  (or waiver in whole or in part by the  intended
beneficiary thereof in its sole discretion), at or prior to the Closing Date, of
the following additional conditions:

         (a) Each of the  Partnerships  shall  have  performed  in all  material
respects  its  agreements  contained  in this  Merger  Agreement  required to be
performed at or prior to the Closing Date.

         (b) The  representations  and  warranties  of each of the  Partnerships
contained  in this Merger  Agreement  shall be true and correct in all  material
respects at and as of the Closing  Date as if made at and as of such time unless
they relate to another specified time.

         3.3  Conditions  to  Obligations  of the  Partnerships  to  Effect  the
Mergers.  The  obligations of each of the  Partnerships to effect its respective
merger shall be subject to the fulfillment (or waiver in whole or in part by the
intended  beneficiary thereof in its sole discretion) at or prior to the Closing
Date of the following additional conditions:

         (a) Each of  Pioneer  and  Pioneer  USA  shall  have  performed  in all
material respects its agreements  contained in this Merger Agreement required to
be performed at or prior to the Closing Date.

         (b) The  representations  and warranties of each of Pioneer and Pioneer
USA contained in this Merger Agreement shall be true and correct in all material
respects at and as of the Closing  Date as if made at and as of such time unless
they relate to another specific time.


                                    ARTICLE 4
                              ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS

         4.1 Conduct of Business  Pending the Mergers.  Each of the Partnerships
covenants  and agrees that,  between the date of this Merger  Agreement  and the
Closing Date,  unless the other parties shall  otherwise  agree in writing or as
otherwise  contemplated  in this  Merger  Agreement,  they shall  conduct  their
respective  businesses  only in the ordinary  course of business and in a manner
consistent  with past  practice,  and they shall not take any action  except for
actions consistent with such practice.  Each of the Partnerships shall use their
respective  reasonable best efforts to preserve intact the business organization
of the  Partnerships,  to keep  available the services of the present  officers,
employees  and   consultants  of  the   Partnerships,   and  to  preserve  their
relationships  with customers,  suppliers and other persons with which they have
significant business dealings.

         4.2 Special Meetings;  Proxies. As soon as reasonably practicable after
the  execution  of this  Merger  Agreement,  Pioneer  USA will  take all  action
necessary to duly call, give notice of, convene and hold the Special Meetings to
consider and vote upon approval of this Merger Agreement,  the Merger Amendment,
the selection of special legal counsel for the limited partners,  that counsel's
legal opinion  referred to in Section 3.1(b) and the  transactions  contemplated
hereby and thereby.  Pioneer USA will use its reasonable best efforts to cause a
proxy statement (the "Proxy  Statement") to be mailed to the limited partners as
soon as  practicable  to solicit from the limited  partners  proxies in favor of
this Merger  Agreement,  the Merger  Amendment,  the  selection of special legal
counsel for the limited  partners,  that counsel's legal opinion  referred to in
Section 3.1(b) and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby,

                                        5

<PAGE>



and to take all other  action  necessary  or  advisable  to  secure  any vote or
consent of the limited  partners  required by the partnership  agreements of the
Partnerships or this Merger Agreement or applicable law to effect the mergers.

         4.3 Additional  Agreements.  Subject to the terms and conditions herein
provided,  each of the parties  hereto agrees to use all  reasonable  commercial
efforts  to  obtain in a timely  manner  all  necessary  waivers,  consents  and
approvals and to effect all necessary  registrations and filings, and to use all
reasonable  commercial  efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all other actions
and to do, or cause to be done, all other things necessary,  proper or advisable
under  applicable  laws and  regulations  to  consummate  and make  effective as
promptly as practicable the transactions contemplated by this Merger Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE 5
                                   TERMINATION

         5.1  Termination.  This  Merger  Agreement  may be  terminated  and the
mergers contemplated hereby may be abandoned,  in whole or in part, with respect
to any or all of the  partnerships  at any  time  prior to the  Effective  Time,
whether before or after approval of the mergers by the limited partners:

         (a)    By mutual written consent of the parties;

         (b)    By any party, if:

                (i) there shall be any applicable  law, rule or regulation  that
                makes   consummation   of  the  mergers   illegal  or  otherwise
                prohibited  or if any  judgment,  injunction,  order  or  decree
                enjoining any party from consummating the mergers is entered and
                such  judgment,  injunction,  order or decree  shall have become
                final and non-appealable;

                (ii)  at  the  Special   Meetings  or  at  any   adjournment  or
                postponement thereof, the limited partners' approval referred to
                in Section  3.1(a) shall not have been obtained by reason of the
                failure to obtain the requisite vote; or

                (iii)  there  shall be any pending  suit,  action or  proceeding
                filed against  Pioneer,  Pioneer USA, any of the Partnerships or
                any  officer,  director or  affiliate  of Pioneer or Pioneer USA
                challenging  the  legality  or any aspect of the  mergers or the
                transactions related thereto;

         (c) By Pioneer,  if Pioneer USA or any Partnership shall have failed to
perform its  agreements  and  covenants  contained  herein,  which failure has a
material adverse effect on Pioneer USA or such Partnership,  as the case may be,
or materially and adversely affects the transactions contemplated by this Merger
Agreement;

         (d) By  Pioneer  USA or any of the  Partnerships  with  respect  to the
Partnership's merger, if Pioneer shall have failed to perform its agreements and
covenants  contained  herein,  which  failure has a material  adverse  effect on
Pioneer USA or that Partnership, as the case may be, or materially and adversely
affects the transactions contemplated by this Merger Agreement;

         (e) By Pioneer or Pioneer USA, pursuant to Section 1.4 hereof;

         (f) By Pioneer  USA,  if Pioneer  USA,  after  considering  the written
advice of legal  counsel,  determines  in good  faith that  termination  of this
Merger Agreement is required for Pioneer USA's board of directors to comply with
its fiduciary duties to its sole  stockholder or to the Partnerships  imposed by
applicable law; or

         (g) By Pioneer,  if there shall have occurred any event,  circumstance,
condition,  development or occurrence causing, resulting in or having a material
adverse effect (i) on any Partnership's business, operations,  properties (taken
as a whole), condition (financial or otherwise),  results of operations,  assets
(taken as a whole),  liabilities,  cash  flows or  prospects,  or (ii) on market
prices for oil and gas  prevailing  generally in the oil and gas industry  since
the  date of  determination  of the oil and  gas  commodity  prices  used in the
determination of the merger values.


                                        6

<PAGE>



         5.2 Effect of  Termination.  In the event of termination of this Merger
Agreement by a party as provided in Section 5.1,  written  notice  thereof shall
promptly be given to the other party and this Merger  Agreement  shall forthwith
terminate without further action by either of the parties hereto. If this Merger
Agreement is terminated as provided,  however,  there shall be no liabilities or
obligations  hereunder  on the part of any party  hereto  except as  provided in
Section 6.13 and except that nothing  herein shall relieve any party hereto from
liability for any breach of this Merger Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE 6
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

         6.1 Headings.  The headings  contained in this Merger Agreement are for
reference  purposes  only  and  shall  not  affect  in any  way the  meaning  or
interpretation of this Merger Agreement.

         6.2 Amendment.  This Merger Agreement may be  supplemented,  amended or
modified  by an  instrument  in writing  signed by Pioneer  and  Pioneer USA (on
behalf of itself and as (a)  general  partner and (b)  attorney-in-fact  for the
limited partners) at any time prior to the Closing Date; provided, however, that
after  approval by the limited  partners  of this Merger  Agreement,  the Merger
Amendment,  the selection of special legal counsel for the limited  partners and
that counsel's legal opinion referred to in Section 3.1(b),  no amendment may be
made which  would  change the type or amount of, or the method for  determining,
the consideration to be received upon consummation of the mergers or which would
in any other way  materially  and  adversely  affect the rights of such  limited
partners  (other than a termination  of this Merger  Agreement or abandonment of
the mergers).

         6.3 Waiver.  At any time prior to the Closing Date,  the parties hereto
may (a) extend the time for the  performance of any of the  obligations or other
acts  of  the  other  parties  hereto,   (b)  waive  any   inaccuracies  in  the
representations  and warranties  contained  herein or in any document  delivered
pursuant  hereto,  and  (c)  waive  compliance  with  any of the  agreements  or
conditions  contained herein.  Any such extension or waiver shall not operate as
an extension or waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any  subsequent  failure
of compliance or other  failure.  Any agreement on the part of a party hereto to
any such  extension or waiver shall be valid  against such party if set forth in
an instrument in writing signed by such party.

         6.4 Expiration of Representations  and Warranties.  All representations
and warranties made pursuant to this Merger  Agreement shall expire with, and be
terminated and extinguished by, the mergers at the Closing Date.

         6.5  Notices.  All notices and other communications to be given or made
hereunder by any party shall be  delivered  by first class mail,  or by personal
delivery,  postage or fees prepaid, (a) to Pioneer at 1400 Williams Square West,
5205 North O'Connor Boulevard,  Irving, Texas 75039, Attn: Mark L. Withrow, with
a copy to Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.,  3700 Trammell Crow Center,  2001 Ross Avenue,
Dallas,  Texas 75201, Attn: Michael D. Wortley,  and (b) to the other parties at
Pioneer  Natural  Resources USA,  Inc.,  1400 Williams  Square West,  5205 North
O'Connor Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, Attn: Mark L. Withrow.

         6.6 Counterparts.  This Merger Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts,  each of  which  shall be  deemed  an  original,  but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

         6.7  Severability.  If any  term or  other  provision  of  this  Merger
Agreement is invalid,  illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of law
or public policy,  all other  conditions and provisions of this Merger Agreement
shall  nevertheless  remain in full force and effect so long as the  economic or
legal substance of the transactions  contemplated  hereby is not affected in any
manner materially adverse to any party.

         6.8 Entire Agreement.  This Merger  Agreement,  including the documents
and  instruments  referred  to  herein,  constitutes  the entire  agreement  and
supersedes all other prior agreements and  undertakings,  both written and oral,
between the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.

         6.9  Remedies.  Except as otherwise  expressly  provided  herein,  this
Merger  Agreement  is not intended to confer upon any other person any rights or
remedies hereunder.


                                        7

<PAGE>



         6.10  Assignment.  This  Merger  Agreement  shall  not  be  assigned by
operation of law or otherwise without the consent of all parties hereto.

         6.11  No Implied Waiver.  Except as  expressly  provided in this Merger
Agreement,  no course of dealing among the parties hereto and no delay by any of
them in  exercising  any  right,  power or  remedy  conferred  herein  or now or
hereafter  existing at law or in equity, by statute or otherwise,  shall operate
as a waiver of, or otherwise prejudice, any such right, power or remedy.

         6.12 Governing  Law.  Except  to the extent  that TRLPA is  mandatorily
applicable,  this  Merger  Agreement  shall be  governed  by, and  construed  in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware  (regardless of the laws that
might otherwise  govern under  applicable  principles of conflicts of law) as to
all matters.

         6.13 Expenses.  Except as otherwise provided herein,  Pioneer shall pay
all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Merger Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby, whether or not the mergers are completed.

         6.14 Liquidation. The Partnerships,  Pioneer and Pioneer USA intend and
agree that the mergers  shall be treated as a  liquidation  of the  Partnerships
into Pioneer USA  pursuant to Section 332 of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended,  and shall make all declarations and filings necessary to accomplish
such intent and liquidation.


               [Remainder of this page intentionally left blank.]

                                        8

<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this Merger
Agreement as of the date first written above.

                      PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY


                      By:  /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                         -----------------------------------------------------
                           Mark L. Withrow
                           Executive Vice President, General Counsel
                              and Secretary


                      PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES USA, INC.


                      By:  /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                         -----------------------------------------------------
                           Mark L. Withrow
                           Executive Vice President, General Counsel
                              and Secretary


                      PARTNERSHIPS:

                      Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-A, Ltd.
                      Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-B, Ltd.
                      P&P Employees Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.
                      P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees Private 89, L.P.
                      P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees Private 90, L.P.
                      P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P.
                      P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P.
                      P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P.

                      By:     Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., as the sole
                              general partner of each Partnership



                      By:  /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                         -----------------------------------------------------
                           Mark L. Withrow
                           Executive Vice President, General Counsel
                              and Secretary


                      By:     Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc., as
                              attorney-in-fact for the limited partners
                              of each Partnership



                      By:  /s/ Mark L. Withrow
                         -----------------------------------------------------
                           Mark L. Withrow
                           Executive Vice President, General Counsel
                              and Secretary




<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT A
                                       TO
                          AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER

                          Summary Table - Merger Value

  This table contains the merger value assigned to (1) Pioneer USA's partnership
interests,   whether  general  or  limited,   in  each  partnership,   (2)  each
partnership's limited partners,  excluding Pioneer USA, and (3) each partnership
as a whole.


<TABLE>

                                                                           Merger Value
                                                           -----------------------------------------

                     Partnership                           Pioneer USA   Limited Partners    Total
                                                           -----------   ----------------   --------
<S>                                                        <C>           <C>                <C>
Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-A, Ltd.   $93,177          $76,236       $169,413
Parker & Parsley Employees Producing Properties 87-B, Ltd.    63,166           63,165        126,331
P&P Employees Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.                 70,772           70,772        141,544
P&P Employees 89-A Conv., L.P.                                40,631          185,099        225,730
P&P Employees 89-B Conv., L.P.                                40,436          184,205        224,641
P&P Employees Private 89, L.P.                                20,288           92,424        112,712
P&P Employees 90-A Conv., L.P.                                26,683          121,557        148,240
P&P Employees 90-B Conv., L.P.                               159,052          577,301        736,353
P&P Employees 90-C Conv., L.P.                                80,129          206,044        286,173
P&P Employees Private 90, L.P.                                29,378          143,431        172,809
P&P Employees 90 Spraberry Private Development, L.P.          14,316           69,895         84,211
P&P Employees 91-A Conv., L.P.                                98,336          116,606        214,942
P&P Employees 91-B Conv., L.P.                               111,073          131,710        242,783
</TABLE>


               New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) Futures Prices

         The following  table shows the NYMEX futures price for oil and gas used
in the calculation of the merger value for each partnership:


                  Date               Oil ($/Bbl)       Gas ($/Mcf)
           -------------------       -----------       -----------
             Oct.-Dec. 2000             30.37              4.67
                  2001                  27.34              3.96
                  2002                  24.46              3.43
                  2003                  22.68              3.09
                  2004                  21.59              2.97
           2005 and thereafter          20.97              2.92


         The merger  value for each  partnership  was  calculated  using a 13.5%
discount rate.


                                       A-1





<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                 EXHIBIT 21.1

<TABLE>

                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

State or Jurisdiction
   of Organization                    Subsidiaries
<S>                                   <C>

Delaware                              Bridge Oil (U.S.A.) Inc.
Delaware                              DMLP Co.
Netherlands                           D, P & D Investments B.V.
Delaware                              Mesa Environmental Ventures Co.
Texas                                 Mesa Offshore Royalty Partnership
Delaware                              P&PCanada LP Co.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Argentina, Inc.
Turks and Caicos Islands              Parker & Parsley Capital LLC
Australia                             Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Holdings Pty Limited
Australia                             Parker & Parsley Petroleum Australia Pty Limited
Delaware                              Pioneer Internatonal Resources Company
Texas                                 Pioneer Natural Gas Company
Argentina                             Pioneer Natural Resources (Argentina) S.A.
Canada                                Pioneer Natural Resources Canada Inc.
Cayman Islands                        Pioneer Natural Resources (Cayman) Ltd.
Texas                                 Pioneer Natural Resources  Scholarship Foundation
South Africa                          Pioneer Natural Resources South Africa (Pty) Limited
Argentina                             Pioneer Natural Resources (Tierra Del Fuego) S.A.
Delaware                              Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
Delaware                              Pioneer Resources Inc.
Bahamas                               Pioneer Resources Africa, Ltd.
Delaware                              Pioneer Resources China, Inc.
Bahamas                               Pioneer Resources Gabon - Olowi Ltd.
Delaware                              Pioneer Resources Producing L.P.
Texas                                 Pioneer Uravan, Inc.
Delaware                              Westpan NGL Co.


                                      Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                                      is the managing general partner
                                      -------------------------------

Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 81-I, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 81-II, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 82-I, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 82-II, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 82-III, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 83-A, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 83-B, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 84-A, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 85-A, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 85-B, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 85-A Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley Selected 85 Private Investment, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 86-A, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 86-B, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 86-C, Ltd.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley Private Investment 86, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 87-A Conv., Ltd.


<PAGE>


                                      Partnerships that Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc.
                                       is the managing general partner
                                      -------------------------------

Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 87-B Conv., Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Private Investment 87, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-A, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 87-B, Ltd.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-B, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-C, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 88-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Private Investment 88, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Producing Properties 88-A, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 89-A, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 89-B, L.P.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 89-A Conv., L.P.
Texas                                 Parker & Parsley 89-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Private Investment 89, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-B Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-C Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-A, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-B, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90-C, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley Private Investment 90 Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 90 Spraberry Private Development Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 91-A, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 91-B, L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 91-A Conv., L.P.
Delaware                              Parker & Parsley 91-B Conv., L.P.
Texas                                 Midkiff Development Drilling Program, Ltd.






<PAGE>




</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1



                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
333-35087,  No. 333-35165,  No.  333-39153,  No.  333-39249,  No. 33-44851,  No.
333-35085 and No. 333-35175) on Form S-8 and (No.  333-42315,  No. 333-44439 and
No.  333-39381) on Form S-3 of Pioneer Natural Resources Company and the related
Prospectuses  of  our  report  dated  January  29,  2001,  with  respect  to the
consolidated  financial statements of Pioneer Natural Resources Company included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.


                                            Ernst & Young LLP



Dallas, Texas
February 22, 2001






<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
